other, institution centered research. There was general
agreement that attention might profitably be turned to
consideration of student motivation, values, and attl-
tudes. The conference also set a high priority on the
study of the college as an institution. The paucity of
such studies was attributed to practical difficulties in
carrying them out and to the lack of experienced re-
search workers. Relatively few social scientists are
skilled in institutional analysis and these have not in-
terested themselves in educational settings.

A second conference was held in October 1957 to ex-
plore further the areas of interest that had emerged. As
participants in this conference described their research
and their plans, it became apparent that study of student
personality and study of institutional culture are most
effective in combination. This is the familiar “person-
ality and culture” analysis applied to the situation of
the student in college.

The conference recommended that a continuing com-

mittee of the Council be appointed. The first meeting of
the new committee was held on December 20-21. After
a day’s discussion of current research the committee
turned to consideration of possible activities that would
contribute to the development and aid of research. In-
terest was expressed in planning and supporting con-
ferences and publications that would facilitate the ex-
change of information among research workers and
enable them to take advantage of unpublished methods
and preliminary results. The long-range objectives of
the committee include the promotion of comparable
studies in different institutions, the development of
useful measures of student characteristics and of the
social culture that influences them, and the building of
a theory concerning the interaction of kinds of students
and kinds of cultures in personality development. The
committee’s plans will be developed further at a meet-
ing on March 25-26, at the Center for Advanced Study
in the Behavioral Sciences.

COMMITTEE BRIEFS

AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS

R. G. Bressler, Jr. (chairman), Varden Fuller (secretary),
George K. Brinegar, Willard W. Cochrane, Earl O. Heady,
H. B. James, D. Gale Johnson, Glenn L. Johnson, Kenneth
H. Parsons, Herman M. Southworth.

At its meeting in Chicago on January 23-24, the commit-
tee considered a memorandum by George K. Brinegar which
proposed the investigation of ways in which research in
agricultural economics might be made more cumulative. A
subcommittee, consisting of Mr. Brinegar (chairman), Her-
man M. Southworth, and Kenneth L. Bachman of the Agri-
cultural Research Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
was appointed to study the problems presented by this pro-
posal and to recommend appropriate action.

ECONOMIC GROWTH

Simon Kuznets (chairman), Richard Hartshorne, Melville
J. Herskovits, Edgar M. Hoover, Bert F. Hoselitz, Wilbert
E. Moore, Joseph ]J. Spengler.

A conference on commitment of the industrial labor force
in newly developing areas is to be held in Chicago on March
28-30, under the auspices of the committee. The conference,
planned by a subcommittee consisting of Messrs. Moore
(chairman), Herskovits, and Hoselitz, is concerned with
evaluation of the findings of several studies—carried out in
countries of Africa, Asia, and Latin America—of the adjust-
ments involved in transfers of labor from agriculture to
industry or to larger and more mechanized agricultural
units, and in recruiting a relatively stable work force. As a
basis for conference discussion, the subcommittee arranged

for the preparation and advance distribution of the fol-
lowing papers: “Work Technology and Organization in
Nonindustrial Societies,” by Stanley H. Udy, Department
of Sociology, Yale University; “Adaptation of Personnel
Policies to Local Institutions,” by Cyril S. Belshaw, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, University of British Columbia;
“Alternative Forms of Industrial Management in Economic
Transition,” by Peter B. Hammond, Administrative Science
Center, University of Pittsburgh; “Development of a Labor
Market,” by Peter Gregory, Department of Economics, Yale
University; “Changing Demand and Consumption,” by
Richard H. Holton, School of Business Administration, Uni-
versity of California; “Labor Mobility and Competing Status
Systems,” by Lloyd A. Fallers, Department of Anthro-
pology, University of California, and Walter Elkan, East
African Institute; “Education, Skills, and Industrial Tradi-
tions,” by Milton Singer, Department of Anthropology, Uni-
versity of Chicago; “Industrial Conflict and the Role of
Unions,” by William H. Knowles, Institute of Industrial
Relations, University of California; “Ideological Shifts in
Unions,” by Morris D. Morris, Department of Economics,
University of Washington; “Kinship and Voluntary Asso-
ciations,” by Manning Nash, Department of Anthropology,
University of Washington; and “Political Orientations,” by
David E. Apter, Department of Political Science, Univer-
sity of Chicago. The implications of the findings of these
studies for certain broader topics are being dealt with in the
following papers: “The Organization of Work,” by Mr.
Herskovits; “Involvement in the Market Matrix,” by Mr.
Hoselitz; “Development of New Status Systems,” by Melvin