-2

5. A discussion of various miscellaneous items such as, location
" of the main power switch, rating requirements of circuit

breakers, CFM and air ccnditioning requiremente for the EAN
area, ik

6. A discussion of the installation problems associated with

the Type 650 Magnetic Drum Calculator as digcussed in Verzuh's
memo dated November 5. ;

problems Associated With The Removal of Blowers on the 704 Equipment

The four engineers from IBH Poughkeepsie discussed at great
length the many detailed problems which arose when the blowers in the
following units: Type 704, Type 733 Drum Unit, the two Type 733 CORE Units,
the Type 741 Power Unit, and the aecppqygbwgginnit Type 736 were removed,

 The IBM engineers agreed to provide detailed circuit drawings
and a complete set of specifications regarding the size of the holes which
ape to be cut in the steel plates, the exact location and type of thermo-
couples which are to bs located im the various machine units, and the design

‘apd cirveuits for  the INYERLOCE equipment which must be installed for

preventative purpeses. -

Syska & Hennessy personnel indicated that they must stop all work
on the installation of the under-flcor duct system until they have had an
opportunity to evaluate the particular desaign degsired to provide the two
types of outlets which are now required. Specifically, one outlet providing
air. conditioned air at Opsi and the second one providing alr conditioned air
at 1 sq. inch psi, respectively.

Resu%ﬁgﬂgﬁ the HHeeting with stka‘g Hennessy Electrical Personnel

Mr. Hick Graham attended this meeting and provided detailed
information regarding some of the design of the INTERLUCE circuit in the
besement of the MIT Computation Center, gnd during the course of this
conversation it was discovered that the main rating for the main circuit

. preaker was only 125 amperes whereas the rating of 400 amperes Was requested

in the specifications which werse submitted to Syska & Hennessy O
November 11, 1955, This sltuation 18 currently being corrected.

Results 3§ §Eg_Conference at Skidmore, Owings & Merwill - 2:00 p.m.
Verzuh presented the revised space layout for the cffice area

in Rooms 142, 144, 146, 130 and 152, respectively, which pertains to the

offices and schedule and dispatch areas in the MIT Computation Center,