APPLICATION FORM FOR COMPUTER USAGE
(to be submitted to Imstitutional Rep. or MIT Dept. Rep. im
duplicate: please type.)

 

i

1. Applicant: Not to he filled

Name, Title, Dept. and Imstitution: in by applicant)
Prob .No.

 

 

Address and Phone Ne. Programeor's No,

 

 

 

2. Problem Title:

 

 

 

3. Programmer(s): (if applicant, write "applicant'; append supplementary |Imit. Date:
sheet if mecessary)

a. Name and Title (programmiag experieace on high spoed machines):

 

Term, Date:

 

 

 

 

Address amd Phone No. Ingt .Rep . Approval ;

 

 

b. Name and Title (experience on high speed mechines):

 

Address and Phone No,

 

 

4. Spomsor: (e.g. thesis advisor, faculty supervisor, project leader,
ete, )

Name and Title

 

5. Signsture of Sponsor signifying approval of this work:

 

6. What ig the purpose of this work? (e.g. educatismal, faculty
research, thesis (specify); if supported research project, give coa-

 

PLT —— tm

tract Ro.

 

Cb

Ee a Bn FHT ne ow

7. Do you intend to publish the resulte and if so where? (e.g. thesis, pony Mach. ‘Time
name of progress roport, ote.) Used:


g. Does the programmer(s) intend to do all the programming?

 

9. Does the programmer(s) intend to prepare the input cards?

10. If the answer to 8 or 9 is no, what plans have you?

 

BE ie en te a ee SSR ST 2 le Cel NCR a en
(Ordinarily, programmi

ng and card punechi
assistance ig nesded p ng have to be aone by tha PEOgTrammar. If

from the Center, special arrangements have to be made)
11, When will program testing probably start?
12,

 

 

Estimate of machine hours required for testing programs:

 

13. Estimate of machine hours to produce results from program

 

14, For indexing purpose, how would you categorize the rxoblem?

 

15: On one or two additional sheets write sections A, B, and C as follows:
Section A: A one-paragraph abstract of Section B and C,

Section B: Complete description of problem background which should
give complete picture to someone well aqueinted with the
relevant field of research. Give references to sarliexr
ox related work and indicate relation to this work.

Section Cz Description of numerical and computer techniques to bs
used, and justification of their adequacy or indication
of how adequacy is to be determined. This description
should include, when pertinent, the number of significant
Tigures accuracy required at various gtages of the calcu-
lation and the ranges and values of the quentitiss ine
volved in sufficient detall so that progrem complexity
nay be estimated, In addition, indicate how you plan to
test the programs and whether you have test cases
available,


