—————— — EY ge

 

Professor H, M, Teager March 30, 1960
26-261

 

To: Prof. Hill
Prof, Morse
Prof, Wiesner
Prof, Fano

SUBJECT: LONG RANGE COMPUTATION SYSTEM STUDY GROUP -
PRELIMINARY OBJECTIVES, ORGANIZATION, AND PLANS

Summary

A group should be set up to study the rele of computation
at MIT and surrounding research centers in order to recommend a plan
for future sction of MIT to cover our needs in the next five or more
years, This study should be completed by winter of 1960.

A plan of approach has been developed, with recommendations
for staffing and support,

in the light of the past ten years of experience in high-
speed computation at MIT, it is time for a critical assessment of our
objectives with regard to computation - its role in our research and
education, both now and for the next five or more years; our needs
with respect to computation; and a plan for an orderly development to
meet those needs, including recommendations for the type of equipment
that should be obtained, and areas for further research and development
in carrying out such a plan, Such an appraisal, while primarily based
upon MIT, would im addition attempt to include the needs of surrounding
laboratories, to determine the desirability and feasibility of pooling
the resources of the area to provide a common facility to meet allied
needs,

it is therefore proposed that a group under the direction of
Professor Teager be chartered and organized to make this systems study.
The approach of this group will be divided into three phases:

P


Er

PHASE 1, Observation and Fact Finding, There is no single assessaent
available of t is going on at present at the Institute with respect
to computation, There are many signe that the usage of computation is
growing both in magnitude, direction, and additional equipment, but there
is no clear indication of "Where it is heading” or of its effectiveness
in research and education, or how its effectiveness could be improved,
The first phase of this study will therefore attempt to answer the
following questions by observation and discussion with the major users
of computation at MIT,

1, What classes of problems are presently being solved by
some form of mechanized computation at the Institute?

2. How do these problems differ with respect to their com-
putation requirements, specialized equipment, and computer capacity?

3, What type of equipment is meeting the need at preseamt,
i.e,, 704, TX-0, 650, analogue, etc?

4. Vhat are the costs in terms of programming time and com-
puter time to solve this class of problem?

5, How effective is the computer as a tool im this area?
Can it be made more so by a change in programming systems, techniques,
equipment, administration, or im the role of user and machine?

6. In what direction (computation-wise) is the problem areas
headed?

This phase will not be confined to MIT, but should imclude
a similar study at MIT's defense laboratories, and nearby institutions
such as A.D, Little, Rarvard, Aveo, ete,

Phase 2, Evaluation, In terms of the fact finding, a study should
next be undertaken in depth to determine the "state of the art” from
an equipment and systems viewpoint, The study should attempt to answer
the following sets of questions:

1, What types of systems are available, and can they meet
these needs?

2. V%hat is the "state of the art” with respect to such
possibilities as remote conscles, time-sharing, multiprogramming, large
associative memories, handwritten input in user language, and programming
systems,

3. Are the needs of the users consistent with what is
available, or what can be developed, initerms of user-oriented programming
systems, input-output devices, and machines?

4, VYhat areas are promising for further research?


-3-

Phase 3, stems Des and ification, By this stage, hopefully

a clear picture will have emerged both with regards to needs and
possible ways of meeting these needs, The group will them go oan to

the crux of the task, namely to the specification of the desired system,
in terms of its type, administration, and role at MIT (or if it should
prove desirable, its larger role with respect to the area), The study
should also attempt to determine what areas deserve future research in
computer usage and computer system design,

Time-Table

While it is too early to specify exact dates, it is presently
planned that the group should spend the remaining part of the spring
term in getting organized, the summer for phase 1, and be prepared to
submit a final report by early fall of 1560,

Organization and Support

It is clear that responsibility (and suthority) should rest
totally upon the chairman of this group, and that the Institute should
back up this position with an expression of support at the highest level;
otherwise, it may prove impossible to collect all the needed facts, It
is further clear that this group will need the participation of a widely
representative group at the Institute, both in terms of guidance and in
terms of detailed knowledge,

it is therefore suggested that the following people be assigned
to this group:

 

a) Senior Consultants: Prof, Morse
Prof, Fano
Prof, Hill
Prof, Wiener
Prof, Wiesner

b) Working Panel Members (fractiomal time):

Dr, Phyllis Fox Computation Center, full time

Prof, McCarthy E.E, and Artificial Intelligence
Prof, Minsky Math, and Artificial Intelligence
Dr, Corbato Physics, Computation Center

Prof, Arthurs E.E,, Information Retrieval

Prof, Arden E.E,, Automata

Prof. Susskind E,E,, Computer Design

Mr, Wesley Clark Lincoln, Neurological Computer Usage
Dr, Eent Hansen Nuclear

Dr, Michael Barnett Physics, Programming Systems
Dr, Daniel Goldenberger Instrumentation, Computer Systems
Prof, Charney Meteorological

Prof, Howard E.E,, Op, Research, Teaching
(Others may be added.)


7 =

The group will pe supported by at least two full-time

research assistant level people, a Secretary, and supplemented by part-
time student employes,

Support

Financial support will be needed to pay for these people, and
in addition, space, office Squipment, and supplies will be needed until
its completion, Moral Support will of course be definitely required,

 

Respectfully submitted,

/ Herbert M, Teager


