NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
| Washington 25, D., C,

 

FOR PRESS AND RADIO NSF-181 FOR RELEASE |
Telephone: STerling 3-21.40 December 3, 1956
‘Extension 3100

FOUNDATION ANNOUNCES
SUPPORT OF FIVE COMPUTER CENTERS

The second in a series of grants in support of computation centers and
research in numerical analysis was announced today by Alan T, Waterman, Director
of the National Science Foundation. Grants totaling $230,000 were awarded as
follows: Cornell University, $50,000; University of California (Berkeley),
$50,000; University of Pennsylvania, $70,000; Princeton University, $40,000; and
Stanford University, $20,000. Th

(Note to Editors and Science Writers: For you who are keeping
a running account of computer grants, and because it spells
out in detail the purposes and objectives of the grants, a
copy of an earlier press release (NSF-165, September 10, 1956)
is attached hereto for your convenience.)

The Cornell grant is designed to support the expanded research facility at
the University Computing Center which was used, during 1954-55, by 26 departments
and schools. Those which used at least 100 hours of machine time were: aeronau-
tical engineering, family relations, industrial and engineering administration,
industrial and labor relations, mathematics, psychology and plant breeding. The
University of Rochester has used the Center a total of LOO hours. It is expected
that the Center will extend its services to other institutions in the region.

The University of California grant was made to help develop a computer
laboratory on the Berkeley campus. A variety of scientific research under way
at Berkeley requires massive computation and includes such fields as engineering,
astronomy, genetics, education, physics, mathematics, statistics, and psychology.

Within the University of Pennsylvania, the computer center will be used by
the departments of mathematics, physics, chemistry, and astronomy, the Moore School
of Electrical Engineering, and the School of Medicine. Neighboring institutions
which expect to participate in the center are Bryn Mawr College, University of
Delaware, Swarthmore College, Temple University and Haverford College.

John von Neumann, now a Member of the Atomic Energy Commission, designed the
original high-speed computer now at Princeton University which became the proto-
type for all large machines with internally stored programs. Research on stellar
evolution and nuclear physics will continue to employ the machine, while further
use is related to the design, construction, and operation of a 3 billion volt pro-
ton accelerator now under way at Princeton.

- more -


The grant to Stanford University will support numerical analysis, applica-
tion of computing machine methods to scientific problems and training of personnel
in the techniques of machine computing. Fields in which the computer at Stanford
has had wide use include statistics, mathematics, physics, engineering and bio-
chemistry.

=—30-m.

Attachment


5 T= >,

 

NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
Washington 25, D.C.

FOR PRESS AND RADIO, NSF-165 FOR RELEASE
Telephone: STerling 3-21.10 MONDAY A.M. PAPERS
Extension 3381 SEPTEMBER 10, 1956

NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION ANNOUNCES GRANTS
IN SUPPORT OF COMPUTATION CENTERS

The first in a series of grants in support of computation
centers and research in numerical analysis were announced today
by Alan T. Waterman, Director of the National Science Founda-
tion. GCrants totaling $135,500 have been awarded as follows:
California Institute of Technology, $38,000; Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, : Oregon State College, $20,000;
TY of Weshingten, $17,500; University of Wisconsin,

30,000.

The funds will be variously used to establish the nucleus
for a computing center where none exists, to extend existing
centers, and to pay rental for computing time. In some
instances part of the funds will be used for salaries of re-
search assistants.

The Foundation's program is designed to strengthen basic
research in a number of fields by providing research invest-
igators access to computing facilities. Only a few large com-
puting centers around: the country are available for basic
research problems and these generally on a part-time basis
only. Most computers are busy on a round-the-clock schedule on
industrial problems and problems related to defense contracts.
The general-purpose university computing laboratory does not
have sources of support for basic research:-at present. Founda-
tion assistance will help to establish or strengthen such
general-purpose research laboratories.

Commenting on the Foundation: program in support of com-
puting research, Dr. Waterman said: "The electronic digital
computer has been growing in importance as a major research tool
since World War II. The art of high-speed computation has now
progressed to the point where many scientists feel that further
progress in their fields will be seriously affected by access to
the techniques and facllities for computation. At least two
obstacles must be overcome in making theoretical advances in
scientific research: formulation of adequate conceptual models
of a natural process, and calculation of anticipated observa-
tions in a particular instance of the process.

"Recent experimental advances in physical and engineering
sciences have made previously relevant linear mathematical


models inadequate for representing many interesting processes
or, in cases where linear analysis remains relevant, have
increased enormously the size of the linear system employed.

Use of mathematical models in biological and sociological re=-

- Search has Induced consequences similar to those in the physical
sciences. It is an historically remarkable coincidence that,
parallel to the emergence of these difficulties, a means of
dealing with them has been found in the art of high-speed com-
putati One. '

The Director added that the need for adequate computer
facilities for basic research problems must be considered
primarily from an interdisciplinary point of view. In addition
to the obvious interdependence of computation and research in
mathematics and physics, other mathematical, physical, and
engineering sciences are utilizing éomputational techniques at
an increasing rate. = Problems in biological and sociological
sciences are also becoming increasingly amenable to numerical
analysis,

Provision of computer facilities for basic research is
filling an important need in training mathematicians at all
levels in formulating scientific problems. At present only a
+ fraction of the number of mathematicians needed for computer
work are being graduated at the various levels. Scientists in
other fields, also, must be trained in methods of app.ying
computer techniques to their own problems. In addition to the
scientists and mathematicians whose interests are in basic re-
search, an increasing number of trained specialists are required
to man the big machines used on industrial and defense problems.

Yet another compelling reason which prompts Foundation
support of computation centers is the need for more research to
advance the art of computation itself. Effective utilization
of existing machines requires research in numerical analysis.
Scientists are daily encountering problems beyond the capacity
of existing machines, and, if the need for better equipment 1s
to be met, investigation into the theory and engineering of
computing machines 1s essential.

Foundation support for various aspects of computer re-
search and training has been worked out with the advice and
assistance of an Advisory Panel for University Computing
Facilities, headed by John von Neumann, Commissioner, Atomic
Energy Commission. Other members of the Panel, who represent
a number of disciplines, are: Herbert LIL. Anderson, Institute
for Nuclear Studies, University of Chicago; Jule G. Charney;
School of Mathematics, Institute for Advanced Study; Gerald M.
Clemence, Director, Nautical Almenac, U. S. Naval Observatory;
Joseph O. Hirschfelder, Department of Chemistry, University of

ie


Wisconsin; Ralph E. Meagher, Department of Physics, University
of Illinois; Philip M. Morse, Department of Physics, Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology; J. Barkley Rosser, Department

of Mathematics, Cornell University; Martin Schwarzschlld,
Department of Physics, Princeton University; Edward Teller,
Department of Physics, University of California; Walter H. Munk,
Scripps Institution of Oceanography; S. M. Ulam, Los Alamos
Scientific Laboratory. |


ROUTING SHEET

Will recipients please check off their names, make appro-
priate comments, and send the material on to the next person on

the list. Will the last on the list please return it to me.

P. M. Morse, Room 6-109, ext. 857

ed RN

 

 

     
 

, Comments

y Conments YR 4.

 

 

 

Comments vu J : |

 

 

 

 

, Comments
A A EES i i i i A i aa a A i anes aaa


