reseeroh. As s letter of feet, this wss true to such an extent thst the
lschine did not contribute ss effectively to the ecsdeeie research progre-

ss it night hsve done hsd it not been oporsted on s selfﬁsupportnng hssis.
Speciiioslly. 1 bolts the operstion of s. Ischine empotin; fseility of this
type should be sponsored in such I. eennor that the finencisl revenue for its
ntilisetion not he the prinry concern: The Anslyner vss slvsys operated under
s self-supporting hesis, end this of necessity lieited its spplioetion to groups
who hsd sdoquete eoens to pay for its use. A better plnn,of course, in one in
which the Ad-inistrstion would provide sdequete finmisl support to pernit_the
eporstion of these fscilitios for educstionsl trsininc sud resent-ch.

nrmrnow g E nxrrmmm mm

 

The'stndies concerned with the possible utilisstion of the digitsl nchines
such so the CPC sud 'hirlwind. hsd proKroesed to such s stege thst on Pohrusry
l, 1954 the Institute decided thst the Differentisl Anslyner should be closed

_ effective July 1, 1954. Hence, in rehrunryj'. the present operstiu stetf wss

notified of this decision in order that they night nshe other srrsngeeents for

persoosl eeploynent. As e result. the oporetion of the Differentisl Anslyser
wss terninsted on June 30, 1954.

During the spring end ens-er eonths e certain neonnt o! negotisting wss
carried on with vex-ions Iducstionel Institutions concerning the possible ‘dis-
position of the nschine. Only the following Universities:

s) Northwestern university, Evenston, Illinois.
h) Purdue University, msyette,',lndim.

c) University of Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh. Pa. ,
d) The University of Connecticut. Stone, Conn.

expressed s serious interest in the possible utilisation of portions of this
uchine. After seversl visits by representatives, etc. . it was nutuelly egroed
thst Purdue University would tehe the major portion 01 the nechine. The rmining
Universities expressed on interest in only I smell port of the RDA.

Once it boos-o opp-rent that the RDA was not to he ruoved end relnstsllod
es s oneplete sorting unit at some other location, plane sore rspidly forsnlsted
for its notes]. reeevsl. Specificslly, early in September, Dr. strstton srrsnged
for en ILLT. appropriation of $5000 (Operating Account 1979.41) to coeer the
cost of ruming end diseantling of the RDA. On August 17, 1954, Prof. G. 5..
Bron officielly notified vorioue embers of the ILLT. family of the decision
to ruove the RDA and asked the- to express their interest in poseiblo use of
noohine cosponente. Therefore, in spproxinntely six weeks n deﬁnite decision

wos node roger-ding the diatribution of the Analyzer. 0:: October '4, s crew of
5 technicians begun to dimnntle the RDA.

Tehle 1 contains the men of sister Institutions, various ILLT. proJacts,
and the type end mount of am equipment which they received. Roughly epeskingv

Purdue university was given one—third of the RDA and other groups received the
rest.