T Rt TS [ Eaem A

~

August 11, 1961

P/

Dre P. Y. Morse
Boom 6-109¢

Dear Dr. ¥orse:

I am writing you prior to leaving on my vaeation. Durimg the
next week, I will be attending & conference on computation at Endleott,
Hew York, end will be givimg a paper there on fridaye. The {ollowing
weeks I shall be enjoying & mucheneeded rest. BRefore lesving, however,
I thought that T should drop you & brief note describing the sctivities
of the personnel who ere with us on this training program.

As you know, I have three of the recearch assistants here; nsmely,
¥iss Altman, Nr. Corbato and Wr. Temkin, and they have mede very good proge
ress up to this time. Theo general plan has been to give each of them rather
voluminous notes on the principles of operetion of the machines. These notes
were carefully studlied by them for spproximately a week during whieh actual
use of the machines wes made, and then each was given e particular problem
to assist on. For exsmple, Corbato, who was the {irst ome to join the group,
sterted out by becoming familiar with the work we are deling on the solution
of simultaneous equations, lanversion of metrices, ete. and he assisted on
the problem in which we are inverting & Z4 x 24 matrix. Shortly after that,
we converted the existing techniques for solution on the new 604 Llectronie
Caloulator, and he has since become quite femiliar with the preparation of
iostructions for this mschine.

1 have taken the liberty of informing these people that you will
probably held a semipar this fall, as we did last yesr, in whioh esch of
them will he expected to contribute somathing. #ith this view in mind, I
have glven each a research assigement. Opecificelly, Corbato hes been given
the problem of formulating an IBY method of solving corystal structure computa=-
tions. Te have for 2 number of yesrs at the Institute been carrying on IBM
work of this type lor various people in the Gesology amd Electrical Engineering
Departments. AY the present time, we are doing work for a Dr. Abrshams, who
is at WIT on e fellowship of some sort. Corbato has done & uice job of formu-
lating the §C4 spproach to this problem, and T have requested that he prepare
& complete writeup of this work for possible presentation at a seminar - -
pending your epprovel of course. In addition, he has been able to assist
with the work that we are doing f'or Profeassor Slater on the Hehrbdinger
problem, the detalls of which you srs familiar with,

Hiss Altmen has been given & resesrch assignwent dealing with the
evaluation of cheracteristic numbers of matrices using the IEK approache.
After much research and formulstion, we are now mechanizing the itersative
mothod of solution of such protlems. The details of this work will awsit
further progress.