Minutes of Meeting, January 9, 1956

of
Tnstitutional Representatives with IBM and MIT Staff,
to Discuss Plans for the Computation Center.

(Appended sheet gives 1list of attendees.)

1. Morse and Hurd gave the background of the projected
snstallation of the IBM 704 and the Computatlon Center to adminlster
it. They emphasized that the Center was set up primarily to provide
instruction in the use of high speed computers in science, engineering,
and business and that both operating procedures and financial support
will be planned to further this aim. Each participating school will
be expected to contribute on three levels: one senior faculty
Tnstitutional Representative, who would act as official coordinator

etween his sﬁgquIon and the Computation Center on policy and
financial matters; one or more faculty members who have an active
interest in learning about machine techniques, who would carry on
research at the Center and training in machine use at his college and
who would be appointed a Research Assoclate of the Center (some of
these would be financed, In part, by the 18M Research Fund of the

Center, others would be supported by other projects by thelr colleges);

and one or more Research Assistants, graduate students who would spend
part of their time at the Center helping program and run off problems
and who usually, though not necessarilly, would recelve gstipends from
the IBM Research Fund, via their college. The yearly amount for
awards for Research Associateships and Research Asslstantships for

the participating institutions is #30,000, an equal amount 1s for

MIT, These awards will be made by the Center, after consultation
with the Liaison Committee, which will be made up of some of the
Institutional Representatives, each serving for a limited time, so

as to have rotation of representation.

2. Verzuh and Hunter described the installation, which 1s
expected to be placed in the new Compton Laboratory the first part
of 1957.

3. Morse passed around proposed drafts of notices concerning
the opportunities for Research Asslstantships and Associateships,
which the Institutional Representatives could distribute to the
interested departments in their institution. It is hoped that

decisions could be made, this spring, for asppointments beginning
next fall, |