A CONCORDANCE PROGRAM FOR THE WORKS
OF JOHN CALVIN

Summary

One of the glories of classical scholarship is an impressive
array of concordances to ancient Greek and Latin writers, For the
Scriptures, too, and also for the corpus of Roman law there are
comparably exhaustive indices to the texts. These concordances
were compiled with enormous and tedious labor by dedicated re-
searchers and their assistants. It would be hard in our day to find
such persons to work thus selflessly for hours and years. Yet we
have at hand an instrument of truly amazing capabilities, the elec-
tronic computer, to carry out: research of such fundamental and
necessary character,

The application of the electronic computer to the immediate
task, the first concordance in the series, is essentially simple. The
enormous bulk of the Institutes (slightly under 500, 000 words in
Latin) will be stored on magnetic tapes so that many kinds of ques-
tions may be propounded to this 'memory'. Properly interrogated,
the machine will print a complete alphabetical listing of each word
with its immediate context. What is more, questions of syntax, of
rhetorical structure, of meaning itself can be swiftly and directly
raised, if the project has been duly programmed. Duplicate tapes
can be made available to interested scholars at cost. The advances
in. knowledge possible, once the magnetic memory is put to use, will
be remarkable. With uncanny speed the computer will search the
entire length of the Institutes on any point within its grasp raised
by the researcher,

Work on the Institutes Concordance has already begun with
the help of a small loan from the Hartford Seminary Foundation. To
complete this first volume and the remaining ones in the proposed
series will, however, require sponsorship and financial assistance
from outside sources. It is to this end that the present appeal is
made,

4 July 1964 Ford Lewis Battles Ph. D.
Schaff Professor of Church History
The Hartford Seminary Foundation
Hartford, Connecticut, U.S. A.