April 13, 1959

Academician A. A. Dorodnitsin
Director, Computation Center
Academy of Sciences

Moscow

J. 8. 8. R.

Dear Academician Dorgdnitsin:

Since last September I have, as you can see, become Director of the Research
Computation Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, We
will have as our computer to use the Univac 110%, an equipment similar to

the two which are now being used by the Bureau of Census in Washington to
process the 1960 U. S. Census. It has over 8, (00 words of magnetic core
storage, 32,000 words of drum storage, and 17 Uniservo tape units.

We plan to have a Summer Conference on Frontier Research in Digital
Computers from August 17-28 here in Chapel Hill, similar to the one held

last year in Ann Arbor. I am enclosing a copy of the announcement, After
this the A. C. M. is to have its National Meeting in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
September 1, 2, and 3. JS,

 
 
 

SW
I have written invitatigpns to Dr. geen od Professor Kanlorovich, copies
of which are enclosed, \nviting them to-give each a series of ten lectures at
the Conference, in the same on you and your colleagues did last year
at Ann Arbor, under a similar agreement. After these lectures, Professor
Perlis and I would be pleased to have them go with us to Cambridge.

Unfortunately our conference here will not have courses aimed at the design
and construction of actual hardware, and I have not been able, therefore, to
invite any of your Soviet computer design colieaguss io talk in such sessions.
However, as I have indicated in the two invitations, if you and Academician
Lebedev feel that vou would like to suggest a larger group of attendess, (one
or two more), I would be pleased to hear such a suggestion.

These lectures, of course, are based as beiore on the agreements on exchange
of persons between the U. 5. A. and U. 5. 5. R., and we would expect that

a similar invitation would be issued to a corresponding number of U. S.
computer scientists to visit your establishments and lecture to your or

similar groups. In particular, I have talked to Ben Mittman of Armour
Research Foundation, who could lecture in Russian about the Computational


Academician A, A, Dorodnitsin

Page Two April 13, 1959

System for the Univac 1105 there, and who would be interested in such a
possible exchange. I have also talked to Dr. Nicholas Metropolis of the
University of Chicago, who has evidenced interest in such a series of
lectures in the U. S$, S. R., to Dr. Householder, of course, to Dr, Jack
Moshman, a statistician and Secretary of the Association for Computing
Machinery, and others. I am sure that if you have the names of these or
other i. 3, computer scientists that you would like to invite in return, a
suitable group could be arranged to visit you.

I am very pleased that my leadership of our Computation Center here now
allows me to plan such exchanges further and hope that the trips of last
year can be duplicated. If you and, of course, Academician Lebedev would
like to join the party, we would of course ba exceedingly pleased to have
you suggest that, and arrange to have the size of the groups extended.
However, I must again warn you that there will be little emphasis on actual
machine hardware at the Chapel Hill meeting, with somewhat more at the
Association for Computing Machinery mesting in Cambridge.

We would again plan to arrange meetings along the route from New York to
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill to Cambridge, and Cambridge to New York for
the visitors to meet and talk to other ‘merican computer scientists, but

I think they would probably meet almost everyone of interest either at
Chapel Hill or Cambridge.

Professor Perlis is joining me in this invitation, and hopes to have further
discussions with Trshov on their mutual interests. My wife, of course,
would be pleased to see and talk to you again,

The main purpose of this letter, of course, is to begin correspondence about

a second such exchange of lecturers. I hope that you and Academician Lebedev,
to whom I am writing a similar letter, as well as Professor Kantorovich and
Dr. Zrshov, will feel that this is a good idea. I myself value highly the trip
that I made to the Soviet Union last fall, as do all of my friends who went

with me. The details of the final exchange, of course, can be negotiated in
other letters between now and the date of the conference, but I would

appreciate an answer as early as possible since I have plans as to the lecture
schedules, etc., that must be made before about June 15. 1 hope you, of
course, will answer in Russian, which I wish I could write better!

Sincerely yours,

WJ. Cour yif

ohn W, Carr, II, Director
Research Computation Center

 
   

cc: Professor A. J. Perlis
Dr. W. M. Whyburn, Vice President,
University of North Carolina S
Professor Philip Morse, M.I1. T., Computer
Laboratory


