-‘Mr Robert Atkinson
Page 8 '
| ,Septcmber 23. 1960

compo:ed of kofmon Alexander, Emery and Greonberqer, md wm b.
directly responsible for the administration of the facility . The eompuw
will be Mhm“ny supu-viud by Mr. C. Hamy Wulton. L

| PhZ!LE gstallauan and Pmmggg

v Space for the proposed computing facmty will be avaﬂabh m
- the basement floor of the Alfred P. 8loan Building. We have an appro-
priate space for an adequate machine installation that has been alrudy
reviewed by members of the IBM staff, We intend to have associated
with the major room, a room with work space for the key punches, card
storage, and for programming wﬂvity‘ Associated with these computer

rooms will also be a small classroom. Detaﬂod plans for power, utnmes. %

and partttlons have been eltabluhad.

o .

  

| '_‘t use of the computer
will be paid by the School of Industrial Management irom the academic
budget. The major rental cost will be largely financed by direct charges
against the research budcet of the School. The Mstallation costs will be
underwritten by the capital budget of the Institute.

The cost of the teaching staff and stuc 3

I wish to emphasize again that the Schoel of Industrial Manaqe-
ment is prepared to effectively utilize the opportunities afforded by the
installation of an IBM 1620 and associated equipment. I am attaching
to this letier as an appendix a complete list of the peripheral equipment
now ordered and to be used with asgociation with the IBM 1620, It is
our intention to utilize this equipment just as soon as it becomes avail-
able,

- .1 wish to express the appreciation of the 8chool of Industrial
Managemem ior the opportunities already made available, and I urgently
request immediate consideration of our application for a computer ingtalla~
tion in the Sloan Building as outlined above. I will of course be glad to
provide any additional infermation required.

- Sincerely vours,
Howard W, Johnson
Dean

¥ ha
Ig‘fy]t‘tfofes;.t:.or Philip M. Morse
Professor Edwin Kuh