TO: Participants in the American Sociological DATE: May 3, 1957
Soclety's Session on "Roles played by
Sociologists and Anthropologists in Oper-
ations Research” (Joint Session with the
American Anthropological Society).

 

FROM: Richard H. Williams, National Institute
of Mental Health, Co-chairman

     
   
 
 

Suggested Guidelines for the Session

The ASS-AAS Jointly sponsored session on operations research will be
held August 27, 1:30 to 3:30 P.M., in the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D.C.

    
 

   

  
  
 
 

Some General Assumptions and Plans

   

The time allowed for preparation for this session is short. The con-
cept "operations research" is relatively unfamiliar to all but a few seg-
ments of the sociological and anthropological professions. There is room
for differences in conceptualization. There are probably still more dif-
ferences of opinion about the roles which sociologists, anthropologists,

and closely related social scientists can, do or "should" play in operations
research.

     
 
      
 
     
 
 
 
 

  

Therefore, it is thought that this session should concentrate on
definitions of the field, and definitions of roles within the field. Ap-
proximately six short (ten-minute to fifteen-minute maximum) papers are
planned. They should not be "data papers," although illustrative material
is always in order. Participants have been sought who have had a variety of
experiences, all relating to the application of social science to various
kinds of "operations" (industrial, military, etc.).

     
      
     
    
     
   
 
 
 

A Suggested Crientation

   

My own orientation to the problem, and the position I shall take in
my brief paper, has been expressed in Wi lliams, Richard Hays, (ed.) Human

  
        
 

Factors in Militery Operations, Chapter 2, "The Theory of Action in Oper-
ations Research and in Social Sciences.” It may be briefly summarized as

  
  

follows:

 
 
 
 

(Cperatione research is research intended to reduce areas of uncertainty
in decisions concerning organized courses of action. Action is behavior
which is oriented toward the realization of ends, or goals. The ends of
organized courses of action may be called "missions."

      
     
       
     
     
 

Tt .
it 18 useful to dis tinguish three major systems, or sub-systems, in
organized courses of action: (1) the technol gical system (action is


ted toward the efficient to

o

« 3)

and

A §

dapta ta

this establishes one set of requirements which aust En met if ends are to
be realized); (2) the eccnomic system (action is oriented toward a maxi-
mum realization of ends at a minimum cost-~this et another set
of requirements); (3) the social system (the fact of interaction of a
plurality of actors and their personalities itself te a rela-
tively systematic pattern and still anothe Be of requirements). Withi
the "social : system,” one can validly differ Sma) for certain § Sree

=
CLL

po. [cal
quisition and

\A
~ dns
oriented

on which is

yd 4
[8 SYS t em \ a
tad 198 ou

9
’

- a Ae

to and influenced by long

(—9<

Ps

arti

or oh ien:

~ na 4. “
ali LV) © | me

tablished m

nfluenced by the ac-
em (action which 1
adaptation).

o

15

ticular oper: ons research projects will vary in the extent to
which emphasis is placed on any one of these three systems In certain
projects, it may define the major problem and be given Eee emphasis,
whereas in others it may be Laken for granted or assumed as given. If,

for

eT

~%
‘he

example,
for combat
The economic

of the resesax
recommends t ons

the pz
Lroops logical

‘oblem
vy be

.echno
ems may be

, the t
and syst
prior

ch

social

“honean Www ~

phases. HOWVevel
Sd

which,

2 whl

inevitably,

invol

LO)

ve

~ a ~ Er
development
BySstem
yr
assum
drawing
the

of optimal protective
will be g primary
ed as given, throughout
conclusiol

4 i V In

®

a
is highly advisable to raise problems concerning the eccnomic and social
systems.

Operations research is designed 1
< de 3 Ts - a
organized courses of action. In doing so
sequences of alternative courses of acti
specific sels of criteria are ised for t
v I _- * 3 2 o -
v Feasibility
A. kifectivenes -A course of
complishe the goel it set
eB asa
° S11 1 1 DA iL LY
A Ef ~ i { 3 = 1 \ J A ur SE 1 SA v

gd
OI}

a - ’% nt mewn st en dr £ aon 2 Be ae
eld recommendations to

inf iuence
bable con-

four

1
eT

t compare
general ty
purpose :

19, -
p (7 2

1 - cw on LP bd orem a IN .
) 3 { 0) 18 = { I of Los re 1 | 8B. "
x accomplish.
Md
- pb < iI 2 a ~ Rh NE
1 8 ef: 1 107 i N30 LG RT L & ot np 1 o shes
A a - £0

ae

sven i 11°

(3 Ve AdVA we
iL

t

/

wd

)

—
F-
-)


- 3 ie

The extent to which each of the three criteria of suitability must be ex-
plicit in analysis will vary with the type of operations research mission.
However, even in relatively restricted missions, it is always wise to
raise questions concerning the other two criteria at ceriain stages of
the research, and at least to do so once before a final recommendation is
made .

The dimensions of decision in organized courses of action are variable.
An organized course of action is, itself, a system, and, as in all systems,
all parts and elements are interdependent, so that a decision affecting
one part will affect the total system. However, the degree of effect on
the total system is variable. The effects of certain decisicns will largely
be confined to small segments of the action pattern, whereas the effects
of other decisione may have a rapid and extensive spread throughout the
entire system. In general, and other things being equal, the narrower the
dimensions of decision to be taken, the more it is pessible to confine the
analysis to one of the three systems in organized courses of action and to
its corresponding criterion.

Cne of the first steps in analysis of an operation, conceived as an
organized cecurse of action, is to determine which of the three major systems
should be given primary focus. In general, this step is relatively easy,
and can be done by quick estimate. However, borderline cases will cer-
tainly arise in which a detailed preliminary analysis of the mission and
its main components will be necessary before the proper focus of analysis
can be achieved. Succeeding steps in operations research will involve =a
detailed analysis of the requirements of the situation of action in direct
relation to the mission, as they bear on the primary system in question,
the construction of models of alternative systems, (within this system
type) and finally, before conclusions are drawn and recommendations are
made, the other two systems should be thrown temporarily into problematical
focus, to see if the assumptions made concerning them are valid. Thus, the
extent to which the elements of the total system or any major sub-system need
to be known before recommendations can be made is variable. The general
principles suggested above may furnish guides for determination of this
dimension and for the reduction of waste research effort.

Thus, I would maintain that theories of action developed in oper-
ations research and in the social sciences are sufficiently similar sco that
value does accrue from cross-fertilization of these disciplines. I would
also suggest that a point has been reached today where greatest relative
gain (per unit of research--e.g., research dollar) can be expected from
analyses of social systems, and questions should be asked about them in all
operations research more than is at present the case. Organized courses
of action require social systems, and social systems, in turn, have their
own requirements. These requirements must be known, and tolerance levels


- if =

for reletive failure to meet them established, before sound judgment con-
cerning the suitability of alternative courses of action can be made. I
might possibly go sc far as to maintain that the perspectives and methods
of operations research may also yield more significant insight and under-
standing of social systems, in many of their aspects, than "pure" or
"basic" research in the aecial sciences.

Suggestions Concerning the Role of Participants in the Session

fies GEWREITRED OETSTSIEarIEd Smmae isi i

Participants in this session could do any one, cr a combinetion of
the following things:

l. Take exception tc the above approach and suggest an alternative
approach.

Add to or modify the above appreach.

ho
>

Be concerned with the relative importance of the system of
their specialty in specific operations research projects,
with an illustration or two.

Lo
Q

Lh, Concern themselves with problems of role definition and
function of their professional specialty within this, or an
alternative, approach.

A 225-word abstract should be sent to the American Sociological
Society, New York University, Washington, Square, New York 3, New York, by
June 15 st the latest. It would be helpful if copies could be sent at the
same time to: Richard H. Williams, National Institute of Mental Health,
Bethesda 14, Maryland; Joseph Casagrande, 726 Jackson PL. N.W., Washington,
D.C.; and Thomas Gledwin, (who is working with Dr. Casagrande) The Colemont
Bldg., Room 312, 8719 Colesville Read, Silver Spring, Maryland. the co-
chairmen should be sbhle to determine a balanced order of presentation upon
receipt of the abstracts.

Participants should regard this memorandum as suggestive anly and
should feel free to approach the problem according to their best Judgment.

/ (4
( I< ti se JW Lid

Loved

Biche | H. Willi ans, amg, Ph.)


