September 17, 1956
Memo to: I.B.M. Research Assistants and Associates

Discussions with the assistants and associates attending
the 704 programming course indicate that there is some uncertainty
concerning the duties and opportunities involved in the assistant-
ship program you have now joined. With assistance from Professor
Hildebrand of the M.I.T. Mathematics Department, I will be your
advisor and supervisor at the Computation Center; at your respec-
tive schools your institutional representative will perform a
similar role. While we can help you get started, and can suggest
some things to be done, it will be up to you to make the most of
the opportunities offered by the Computation Center.

The approximate time which you will be expected to spend
on the program is at the rate of 36 hours per week for a full-time
assistantship. Although fluctuations are reasonable, some schedule
of systematic use of your time should be maintained. In particu-
lar, some of your time should be spent at the Computation Center.
Those off-campus should spend a complete day every few weeks rather
than waste time with excessive traveling. Initially this time at
the Center will be mainly for guidance; ultimately you will have
to adjust these visits to match the work you will be doing at the
Center.

The purpose of the I.B.M. assistantship program is to
give the opportunity of learning modern computing techniques in
both a broad and detailed sense. In other words, you should
attempt to acquire a general background in digital computers and
perspective of the problems which lend themselves to computation.
In particular this should range from a knowledge of numerical
analysis and the theory of programming to an ability to code in
detail explicit problems for the 704 computer. In short, the
objective 18 to become a computer expert and thus complement your
already chosen professional specialty. A long-range objective is
to spread and encourage interest in digital computers in your re-
spective schools and departments. As a short-range objective,
though, you should be concerned with exploring past and future
computer applications within your professional specialty. This
should lead to research projects of your own which should have the
approval of your thesis advisor and/or department and of your
institutional representative. Furthermore, it should be clear that
you are expected to give freely of advice and discussion to persons
at your college interested in computing; you are not expected to
become an errand boy for your respective schools or department
although your institutional representative may assign you various
service projects.

The detalled duties of the ascistantship program may be
summarized in the following list:


8.

ee

Learn how to use effectively the 704 computer.
Acquire a general knowledge of numerical analysis.
Attend the weekly seminar as frequently as possible.
(First meeting: Tuesday, September 25, 3:00 p.m.,
Room 2-239, M.I.T.)

Get acquainted with the staff members of the Computa-
tion Center and the other assistants and associates.
Work on projects which will be periodically assigned
by the Center. These projects way range over as
varied a list as: writing subroutines, technical
writing for Computation Center reports, assisting
numerical analysis courses (on-campus assistants),
giving seminars on computers at your respective
schools (off-campus assistants), and assisting in
the operation of the Center.

Submlt a "progress report" at the end of each M.I.T.
semester (deadlines will be announced later). These
reports may be brief but should describe the status
of your work at the Center. Each report should have
a short abstract summarizing the contents of the re-
port. The reports may contain all or part of the
write-up for "thesis reports." If more than one
problem has been wrked on, separate reports should
be submitted. Finally it should be emphasized that
these reports are to be written at the level of an
expert in your professional speclalty and not for a
"common denominator" of the Computation Center.

The individual reports of the assistants and associ-
ates will be edited and published a month or two
after they are submitted. These printed progress
reports will be distributed to scientific centers
about the country.

Give references (for inclusion in the next printed
progress report) of your publications concerning
problems which were done, in part or wholly, at the
Computation Center. These references may be sub-
mitted at any time and should include for complete-
ness publications which arise after an assiztantohio
may have ended. This would apply especially to
theses and subsequent Journal articles.

Keep the Center and your institutional representa-
tive informed of your current address and telephone
number.

Without the 70% machine available (expected arrival at
the end of February 1957), your immediate plans should be primarily
concerned with study of the 704 and getting acquainted with the

staff members.

For the purpose of 704 study, a set of notes were

issued to all attending the 704 programming course at M.I.T.


(Additional copies are available for assistants and assoclates who
were unable to attend the course.) Particular attention should be
paid to the distinction between the computer proper, the SHARE
compiler (SAP), and FORTRAN. In addition the value of working out
the programming exercises should be emphasized.

As further exercises, it is suggested that closed sub-
routines be written for generating

x and eX. The variable x, which
1s specified on entry into the subroutines, may be considered a
normalized floating point number of either single or double regis-
ter precision. In elther case use the following numerical tech-
niques. For the square root subroutine, Newton's method should be
employed. You should verify that this reduces to the iterative

formula:
(V3), = Ho + 07%),

Give alarms (i.e., stop the computer) if x is negative or un-
normalized. For the exponential subroutine, a number y should be
found such that 0 y<1, and

(e¥Y) = e*. Compute the exponential
of y by the power series expansion and then raise to the n th
power. Give alarms if x is unnormalized or if e overflows or
underflows the floating point range. In writing all subroutines,
use the conventions of the SHARE compiler. Finally, make estimates
of the accuracy and operating times of these subroutines.

The current headquarters of the Computation Center are
at the M.I.T. Digital Computer Laboratory located in the Barta
Building at 211 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge 39, Mass. I will
have an office at this address and can always be contacted through
either of two secretaries there, Miss Mary Reilly (Telephone exten-
sion 3764) and Miss Georgia Negis{rsiaphons extension 3762). The
M.I.T. telephone number is UNiversity 44-6900.

Due to the presence of classified work (Project Lincoln)
in a portion of the Barta Building, there is a securlty guard at
the door. All persons entering and leaving the building have to
8ign in-and-out and have an identification badge. On your first
visit to the Center, ask at the desk for Mary Rellly or Georgia
Nagle, who wlll see that you are issued an identiflcation badge.

In general it will not be necessary to inform the Center
in advance of your visits. However, if you wish to see a particu-
lar staff member, then an appointment should be made. In addition,
you should inform me of your first visit so that I will be sure to
be available. This first visit should be at your earliest convenience
after the beginning of your fall semester.

ole Corbato

Research Associate

 

FT un JN pm A a RE a i — ——777


