f ; . e February 1954 (Part I1I) Thermal Conductivity, IV 81
- tus ror Determining T -
: ararus able I Typical Data for Thermal Conductivity
Thermal Conductivity: [V, App g
o : ements
« o Com ardtlve MethOd e : Pl"'xmple‘l' MgO sampl
) Sé& 1 < T
Thermal Conductivity by P e —
0= Te g 2 —
: = c_o:)e;:lrgs* (°8?_ Als Ay Al I('c‘)%;)). At Aty AL
Data for Pb, Al,Os, BeO, and Mg T, 212.3 221.7
13.8 14.6
Ik 98.5 207
by 7 FRANCL e D. KINGERY 2 198.5 i 207 .1 S
T;  195.2 203.8 '
8.3 9.1
Apparatus for determining thermal conductivity T, 186.9 < 194,', T,
by a comparative method of steady-state heat VERTICAL GUIDE T 1841 ~ 191 8 5
flow through 1-in. cube samples is described. 2y 3 12.1 : 10.6
Suitable precautions insure linear heat flow I's _l)‘Q-Q 5 181.2
: tHinge Lyt 2118 0.5 222.0 0.3
and low heat losses. Measurements with melting T 196 2 0.6 205 8 —0 4
point lead give values in good agreement with INSERT PLATE T 185 1 0 4 193 5 —0.2
previous data. Measurements for dense Al:O;, Tw 171.7 0.3 181.6 —0.4

 

 

BeO, and MgO indicate a conductivity which de-

creases with temperature from values at 100°C.

of 0.50 cal. per sec. ! per °C.~ ! per cm.™ * per

cm. for BeO, 0.081 for MgO, and 0.067 for Al.O;.

Values obtained are somewhat higher than most
of those previously reported.

* . .

* See Fig. 2 for thermocouple locations.

T Al, = temperature drop in sample; Af, = temperature dif-
ference between samples and guard cylinder; Af; = temperature

ALUMINUM TUBE difference across interface (including 2 mm. of samples).

WIRE ROPE

S
PPt
AL

o
S
o

b0

e

 

l. Introduction

HE importance of thermal conductivity measurements
T for ceramic materials is undisputed. However, there

has been considerable difficulty in the past in employing
or analyzing published data owing to wide varations in re-
ported values and to the small number of determinations for
well-defined systems (see Part I of this series). Absolute
methods of measurement require a precise measurement of
both heat input to the system and the path of heat flow.
Although measurements controlling both these variables are
satisfactory (see Parts I and III and footnote 1), they require
in general elaborate methods of heating and guarding, quite
large specimens, and in some cases specimens which are
formed only with difficulty. In contrast, the comparative
method employs a material of known thermal conductivity to
measure the heat flow, and can employ simple shapes of
relativelyv small size with good results.

The principle of the comparative method is simple. A uni-
form heat flow is established through two or more samples.
The temperature drop, heat flow, and thermal conductivity
are related by the equations

_ kdiAh _ ReA2AlL _ kidsAl

q Al Als =7 A/T A (1)
A Al Al Az Al >
Ra e R a0 "“‘=k3*'t- 1.,-._\/- (2)
A. Al, Al A. Al Al =
g = heat flow.
k = thermal conductivity.
A = mean area.
Al = temperature decrease.
Al = thermocouple separation.

[f the conductivity of one sample, &, is known, the the
conductivity of the other, k., can be determined. The heat
flow through all the samples must be maintained constant and
equal for satisfactory results. Deviations from this condition
are the major cause of difficulty in experimental measure-
ments.

In equipment employing linear flow through a series of
samples, errors can occur mainly by lateral heat flow and in-
terfacial resistance between samples. Lateral heat flow re-

rmal

' G. B. Wilkes, Heat Insulation. John Wiley & S
New York, 1950. 224 pp.; Ceram. Abstr., lOISLO). N ic,

D9

: Nove »
931 /1. ember, p.

80

     

TRANSITE '

     

   
 
   

   
     

   
      
 

  

      

RN
AR
N
ALUMINA >
TUBE v A 4 ||
| FB 5
STAINLESS L] (B ‘; g
STEEL SHELL L [BSE & &
[ 2| |3
b Sl | ——3 <
2287 |) ||
Z
<

0102734

et

SCALE IN INCHES

TRANSITE

 

Fig. 1. Cross section of thermal conductivity apparatus.

sults in an unequal heat flow through the standard and un-
%"m,)w“ sample since some of the heat entering the first sample
in 1ts path does not reach subsequent samplés. Lateral flow
can be reduced by large samples, suitable insulation, and
.‘?'llal‘('l methods. Interfacial resistance may cause a nonuni-
tormity of temperature distribution, complicates the guarding
agamst lateral flow, and adds thermal resistance which has
generally been included with that of the sample, giving er-
roncous results. This occurs since thermocouples have gen-
erally been embedded only in a metal standard near the in-
lc"fil(‘c.‘.assuming that the interfacial resistance is negligible.
¥ntcrf.ama] resistance is reduced by forming smooth surfaces,
ul)b.l}-mf.{ 1}1(‘0}]uni(‘ill pressure to insurc 'fr:)d contact, ntro-
Zl(l:s:ﬂﬁtl l.lt]m of plastic or liquid metal f:;L\'in;.; high thermal
‘Lvity ; . ; ' : ek Emnn
to in(‘rcase'il;earl]a(ili;:;l)t];gl:ls]fird'LZ‘:(‘:::TMIr ”l’) h-lg]lixltjlll:rSlt;lliti.
The last two cons ‘ ¢ §S any remaining &
taneously,

derations may be difficult to apply simul-

 

SCALE IN INCHES

Fig. 2. Cross section of heaters and samples. §,,;, standard samples;

S2, unknown sample; T,.jo, thermocouples (Pt-Pt-10% Rh); Hy ;. heater

(25 turns, 0.016-in. Kanthal); H. ; heater (18 turns, 0.016-in. Kanthal);

Hy s, heater (15 turns, 0.016-in. Kanthal); Hg, heater (11 turns, 0.016-in.
Kanthal).

Typical equipment for applying the comparative method
to metals is described by Van Dusen and Shelton.? Melting-
point lead was used as a primary standard and nickel as a
working standard. Standard and unknown were soldered
together and several thermocouples peened into the standard
and unknown. A separately heated guard cylinder of stain-
less steel was employed, and the space around the samples was
filled with diatomaceous earth as insulation. Temperatures
in the guard cylinder were checked at points in the same
plane as the points in the samples and adjusted to their tem-
perature +2.5°C.

Comparative flow apparatus for ceramic samples has been
described by Knapp?® and by Scholes.* Knapp emploved 1-
cm. cube specimens and a stainless steel standard. Tin foil
placed between standard and specimen improved thermal
contact. Thermocouples were placed only in the stainless
steel standard and the temperature drop in the sample was de-
termined by extrapolation. Interfacial resistance, unknown
and unmeasured, was included with the resistance of the
specimen. A stainless steel guard cylinder was employed
with temperature gradient equalized at the measuring points
corresponding to the standard. The guard temperature was
not equalized relative to the unknown sample itself. Under
the conditions of measurement, the interfacial temperature
drop, temperature uniformity, and heat-flow equality were
not rigorously established. The small sample size required
by Knapp for his work with available single crystals also
made the measurements difficult.

2 M. S. Van Dusen and S. M. Shelton, ‘“‘Apparatus for Meas-
uring Thermal Conductivity of Metals up to (3()()°C.,"‘Bm.
Standards J. Research, 12 [4] 429-40 (1934); RP 668; Ceram.
Abstr., 13 [7] 192 (1934). e |

SW. J. Knapp, “Thermal Conductivity ().f- .\()ll'lllcl:l”l(‘
Single Crystals,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 26 [2] 48-55 (1943).

+W. A. Scholes, “Thermal Conductivity of Bodies of High
BeO Content,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 [4] 111-17 (1950).

Scholes modified Knapp's general type of equipment by us-
ing somewhat larger specimens, disks !/, in. in diameter and
/o in. thick, and emploving copper standards. As .in
Knapp’s equipment, thermocouples were placed only in the
standards and the temperature drop in the sample was deter-
mined by extrapolation. The sample was soft-soldered to
the standard and no heat guard was employed. The equip-
ment was checked with melting-point lead (see Fig. 6).

The present work consists in the design and construction of
a comparative flow apparatus suitable for precise work with
ceramic materials at temperatures from room temperature to
about 1000°C.  Using this equipment, measurements of the
thermal conductivity of melting-point lead, Al,O;, MgO, and
BeO have been carried up to 600°C.

Il. Experimental Procedure and Results

The equipment evolved after consideration and testing of
several modifications is shown in Figs. | and 2. The unknown
sample (.S,) is centered between two standard samples (S, and
S3) of thermal conductivity similar to the unknown. All the
standards and samples are l-in. cubes, and all surfaces are
carefully lapped. Thermocouple holes (0.020 in. in diameter)
are formed in each standard and specimen cube for tempera-
ture measurement, eliminating any extrapolation. A thin
silver foil (0.001 in.) of high thermal conductivity is placed at
each interface. (For temperatures above 900°C., Pt is em-
ployed.) As shown in Fig. 1, mechanical pressure insuring
good contact is applied through an aluminum tube and com-
pressed spring held by a plate inserted in slots in the vertical
tube.

Thermocouples in the samples and standards were wedged
in place with ceramic wedges, and thermocouple holes were
located 1 to 3 mm. from the interfaces. Thermocouple leads
were brought out through insulated holes in the upper heater
and through the hollow aluminum tube. Using this system
the samples and thermocouples could be aligned and as-
sembled with the guard cylinder and insulation in the upper
position. Heaters were made in the laboratory from dense
Al,Os. The guard cylinder consisted of an Alundum tube
with five separate windings corresponding to each speci-
men and heater. Insulation around the guard cylinder aided
in reducing lateral flow. Thermocouples were located in the
guard cylinder opposite each interface. The entire guard
cvlinder and insulation could be raised and lowered
along guide rods. It was counterweighted for easy manip-
ulation. The space between the samples and guard cylinder