cc—ia cchpumnou cswmn

Helmhusotts Institute of Technology
mace 39, lessechusetts

mum
'lo: newt-ant needs Date: April 10, 1957
Iron: P. ll. Horse, Director

Subject: Approve]. of Requests tor amputation Time at the center

W

l. The Center has set up the rule that all research workers,
faculty or students. who wish to use the equip-eat o! the Center in the
course of their resesrch. must apply for approval or their computing plans
sud for sssigment o! sachine tine. using the forms enclosed. Machine time
for unclassified research, connected with graduate education, is tree, but
we need the tor-alien of an application so as to have the chance to look
over ccmputstion plens before they ere started, to see whether they ere
feasible and to see vhether we can allocate the required time. (No classiﬁed
uork will he done at the Center.)

a. no Center is coking that esch Department Head approve each such
application which involves either faculty members or students in his department,
before the application comes to us. We teel this added requirement is desirable
because:

 

1. It gives you a. chance to see what use your department is
making of the Center (you my wish to loop a record of the forms you
have OK'd.)

2. It gives us the benefit of your judgement of the value of
the proposedresesrch to the educational activities carried on by
MIT. We do not ask you to Judge the feasibility of putting the
problem on a computing machine (we will do that); we g2 ask that
you approve only these requests which represent useful research in
the field of your department and which contribute non-trivially to
the education of one or more students.

3. We do not ask that you approve requests for machine time
from 081?. projects. involving only 088 staff members in the prosecution
of the research of their project. Such purely project computation,
usually of a. more routine nature, will have lower priority in machine
time assignments, will be expected to contribute financially to the
support of the Center, if time is assigned, and arrangements for
this work will he discussed between the Center and the Project
Supervisor directly, without needing to bother you. In any case, the
work must be publishnble.

 

4. To approve an application, you should sign in the box on the
right—hand column, marked "Inst. Rep. Approval”, circled in red in the enclosed
sample. We will not accept an application without such a signature.

5. If you have any questions about these procedures please call or
see me or Frank Verzuh.

mﬂw