M.I.T. Computation Center Page 6 of 10
Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE HROGRAMMER

DESCRIPTION

There are several grades of programmers in an electronic datas processing installation.
The highest or Grade I programmer is referred to a&s a senior or professional progranmer.,
This person may program the most difficult problems or he may formulate block diagrams

and flow charts from which others may write the instructions or machine code. The

lower or second-grade position is usually refereed to as a ‘programmer'’. The job
description for programmer is the same as for the prefessional programmer except for
the degree of competence.

A third-grade level of programmer may be called & ''trainee programmer or coder’ .

This person usually works under the direct supervision of a programmer or & professional
programmer, respectively. He is expected to write the actual machine instruction for
2 program from the block diagram prepared by the professional programmor

DUTIES

1., Assists in the preparation of the msthematical statemnt or systems study of the
overall problemn.

-2. Prepares the logical diagrams of the proposed EDPM procedure.

3. Assisis in the review of the logic ~-- this involves a careful study of present and
propesed procedures with all those currently involved in the present operation.

4, Preperes a machine block diagram which is a statement of the solution of the
approved logical diagram expressed in machine language.

5. ©odes the procedures in the machine language. In effect s expresses the solution
of the problem in the particular machine languasge under congideration.

6. Frepares a test solution which 1s used in checking the program on an EDPY machine.
7. Pexforms the actual machine testing of the EDPM program on the machine.

8. Prepares a complete write-up of the problem -- including machine cperating
instructions, a list of machine stop codes, and an explicit set of instructions
for emergency operations.

QUALIFICATIONS

1. Educational Background: high school education or eguivalent. Since programming
is a precise and logical operation, a college education and a knowledge of
mathematics is desirable; However, it is not esseniial. EAM experience is helpful
but not essential.

2. Natural Ability and Aptitude: a number of aptitude tests have been developed to
measure the lildihood of success in the progz uming field. A suitable aptitude
test will be used to select candidates in this field.

il