NOTE ON ALMOST-ALGEBRAIC NUMBERS
HARVEY COHN!

1. Introduction. According to a theorem of J. Liouville,? if 8 is
an algebraic number of degree #n, then any approximation by ra-
tionals, p/q, is of such a nature that

(1) |60 — p/q| = kg

for a positive constant k. Liouville constructed his transcendental
numbers as the limit of special sequences of rationals, /g, which
violated condition (1) regardless of the values of k and 7, as g—©.
Thus Liouville constructed almost-rational numbers.

E. Maillet® likewise found a lower bound for # —a where now 8 is
approximated by the quadratic numbers, a. He then violated his
lower bound by substituting for 6 the value of an almost periodic
simple continued fraction and for a a quadratic number, namely a
periodic simple continued fraction that 6 almost represented. Thus
he constructed an almost-quadratic transcendental.

It is an elementary matter to find a lower bound for # —«, where
we now approximate 6 by an algebraic number not necessarily ra-
tional or quadratic. We could then try several departures. We could,
for example, try to construct almost-cubic or almost-biquadratic
transcendentals.® On the other hand, we could use a diagonal method,
that is, we could consider the limit of a rapidly converging sequence
of algebraic numbers whose degree becomes indefinite. For example,
a root of a power series with rational coefficients is the limit of a se-
quence of (algebraic) roots of the partial sums, and the speed of con-
vergence is regulated by the remainder. If the remainder is too small
we find that the root of our power series can be approximated too
closely by algebraic numbers of varying degrees, namely the roots of

 

Received by the editors June 13, 1946.

! Written at the Navy Port Director Unit, Yokosuka, Japan, March 1946. The
author wishes to acknowledge the advice of Professors C. L. Siegel and B. P. Gill.

2 J. Liouville, Sur des classes trés étendues des quantités dont la valeur n'est ni algé-
brique ni méme réductible a des irrationelles algébrigques, J. Math. Pures Appl. vol. 16
(1851).

8 E. Maillet, Théorie des nombres transcendents et des propriétés arithmétiques des
fonctions, Paris, Gauthier-Villars, 1906, chap. 7.

¢ For instance, E. Maillet, op. cit., pp. 22, 100, considers certain “rapidly converg-
ing” power series with rational coefficients and algebraic values of the argument. The
value of such a series is shown to be almost algebraic when regarded as the limit of the
algebraic partial sums (which lie in the field generated by the argument and therefore
are of no higher degree than the argument).

1042