Generation of Spherical Bessel Functions in Digital Computers

by
Pernando J, Corbats’
and

Jack L. Uretsky™

Physics Department
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Cambridge, Massachusetts

WB WE Www aw Ew we

This work was assisted in part by the Office of Naval Research
under Contract NS ori 60,

iow at Computation Center, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Now at Radiation Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley,
California


A method of computation for spherieal Bessel functions
of real and imaginary argument is given which is especlally
suitable for digital computers. The method involves the use of
recurrence relations with unnormalized values of the functlon.
The accuracy and convergence are examined and eriterion formulas
are given. A procedure based on the Wronskian is used to simplify
the final normalization.


SMBEALY

When one attempts to solve 2 problem on a digital computer
one often finds it necendary to furnish the machine with a great
sary values of some well-known analytic funtion, There are essentially
two ways to do this. one technigue 18 to read the values from a table
of function values kept in internal storage during the computation,
Alternatively, the values of the funetion may be generated, as needed,
by the computer. In either ease, it is desirable to compute all
function values internally.

extensive use has been made of a function generator in
connection with the solutions of the spherical Bessel equation. it
turng out that in the case of these functions it is posaible to

 

formulate 2 method of generation which 1a particularly well adapted
for machine use, The method ds based upon the use of recurrense
relations which are guite simple in form, thereby being easily coded,
and yet give high numerical accuracy throughout the range of order

 

and argument met in most applications, The use of recurrence relations
implies, of course, that the method would be most efficiently utilized
in those caleculations where one requires the value of the function
for meny different orders at each specified value of the argument.

The purpose of this paper is to show how the recurrence
relations may be used in a straightforward manner for generating
in a digital computer the various types of spherical Bessel functions.


In particular, the problem of Starting the recurrence relations is
discussed from the viewpoint that a computer program must be able
to achieve a prescribed accuracy entirely from pre-established
criteria,

It 1s assumed that the required spherical Bessel functions
to be generated for a given positive value of x and the integral
values of n=0(1)N are one of the four types: § (x), n(x), 1,(x) or
k (x).

Straightforward conalderations show that the upward use of
the three-term recursion relations is numerically accurate for n(x)
and k (x), Inasmuch as these functions for order 0 and -1 are
essentially elementary trigonometric and exponential functions ’
starting the upward process offers no problem, Conversely for x
not large compared to N downward recursion is the only direction
numerically accurate for the functions J,(x) and 1 n(x). However,
instead of computing the funetion values for order N and Nel to start

 

the downward recursion, a speelal technique 1s used where the
recursion process is started at a higher order, )) » With the approxi.
mation 3 or 3 equal to zero and 3: -1 or 1) 1 equal to unity.
Here the barred quantities are the unnormalized functions, The value
of J is chosen high enough so that the ratios of successive values

of i or 5 are accurate for all n less than or equal to HN,


the final normalization of the set of unnormalized 3, (x) or 1 (x)
simplicity.

Criterion will be given for the choice of,) as a function of x,
Since the forms of Jo (x) and 1,(z) are elementary functions,
Special normalization forms derived from

N and the accuracy desired,
the VWronskian can be used for further

is easily accomplished.

vide NB x7 4 "2

 

fF ; g : 5 &y ' EF em } 0 A Se La
: 1a a (RG Rb bel Sau 00 pf A pl CRT Ral td A bb Ey > whe Sl
wn BE ne SRE ES JR stat fics SEE SR VRE og Lr Eh PRR
pai SEN Tate SH SRA pd Eg OL IG Ry { 1a a: Ey wl 3: NE, IR he Ei i“ N Vg le kd § REN


