ORNAMENTAL CHAIN

 

This invention relates to improvements in
necklaces, belts, bracelets, and the like, and has
for its object to provide a device of this nature
formed of a series of detachably connected
members whereby the length of the chain may be
adjusted to the purposedesired and which may be
quickly changed by adding to or removing de-
tachable sections therefrom.

1 indicates a chain, formed of a series of de-
tachably connected members 2, which may be
made of flat sheet metal or other suitable ma-
terial, said members, in the showing, being in

the form of butterflies, the antennae 3 and 4 of
which are formed of spring wire and terminate
in half balls or knobs 5 and 6, said balls _bemg
adapted to be sprung together to be projected
through the opening 7, in the rear end 8, of the
body 9 of an adjoining section or member, after
which they will spread and hold the sections [0~
gether.

It wiil thus be seen that a chain of thes;i]
butterflies may be made of any desired lengt
and very quickly at that.

Exhibit 2

14

The Search in Plastics

The examiner next proceeded to class
18, PLASTICS, where he searched sub-
class 49, which is directed both to proc-
esses of molding and uniting, and to cer-
tain types of articles made by such
processes. In this subclass, the examiner
searched for any molded plastic article
which he was searching, for example,
some statement of the inherent resilient
characteristic of polyethylene. Since no
art was cited from this class, we can as-
sume that he found nothing more perti-

nent than the references which he later
cited.

The Search for Joints

Next in the search process was class
35, EDUCATION, subclass 60 Furniture,
in which the examiner hoped to find
analogous separable joints. This sub-
class is directed to devices in the nature
of furniture which may be used in teach-
ing. Here, too, no more pertinent art
than that later cited was found.

Next, the examiner went to class 46,
AMUSEMENT DEVICES, TOYS; subclas-
ses 16, 17, 18, and 22. These subclasses
are directed to construction toys, partic-
ularly of the knockdown type. Specifically
toy stores and figures were searched.
Here the examiner searched to find con-
catenated elements with separable joints
similar to those claimed and disclosed.
The references found as the result of
this search are excerpted in exhibits 4,
S5, and 6.

The disclosure of exhibit 4 (5) illus-
trates a piece of toy furniture made of
blocks, which blocks may be interchanged
and separably connected in several dif-
ferent arrangements. One of the separa-
ble fastening means disclosed is a rubber
shaped dumbbell, which cooperates with
bulbous, rigid-walled sockets in both mem-
bers. This was probably cited because
of the dumbbell fastener 23 of figure 4,
exhibit 1.

This citation is interesting in that the
dumbbell of the reference is resilient and
the sockets rigid. This is the reverse of

the disclosure inthe application, but points
up the problem of equivalency, which will
be discussed later in this paper. Even
though the resiliency of the fastener parts
is reversed, the citation of this patent
might discourage the later presentation of
a broad claim involving such a joint,
e. g., a claim to such structure where
“one of the elements is resilient.”

The disclosure of exhibit 5 (6) is a sec-
tional toy figure made up, in part, of a
series of molded links with bulbous pro-
jecting connectors at one end, and
shouldered sockets at the other end.
These are shown concatenated to make a
string of cylindrical members forming a
doll’s limbs precisely in the same manner
as the spherical beads of the applica-
tion make a string of beads. There is
also a disclosure of a link with a pro-
jecting fastener at right angles to the axis
of the other two fasteners which might be
held to suggest a reversal of the struc-
ture of the bead of figure 6 of exhibit 1.

The disclosure of exhibit 6 (7) is an
educational toy employing a round spheri-
cal element with a tapered plug project-
ing axially from the surface. Diametrical-
ly opposite to the plug there is a tapered
socket, and four additional similar sockets
spaced 90° apart around the surface at
the equator. There is also a board or
base with a pattern of similar tapered
holes. The spherical members may be
assembled by the insertion of the plug
in any of the sockets in any other sphere,
or in the board, as shown. This patent
was probably cited by the examiner for
the disclosure of figure 6 of exhibit 1,
as well as for the disclosure of selec-
tively concatenating spherical bodies.

Next the examiner searched class 24,
BUCKLES, BUTTONS, CLASPS, ETC.,
subclass 108, directed to separable buttons
and fasteners with spring type resilient
sockets; subclass 116, for chain-type
cord and rope holders; and subclass 208,
for head and socket separable fasteners
of the axial closure type. The pertinency
of this search field is obvious. Fromthis
class, the examiner cited thedisclosures,
excerpts of which are shown in exhibits
7 to 9, inclusive.