»

Minutes of the Twelfth Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

March '7, 1951

Pezgggg gggggm a. R. EV rett Ii. Feshbach z. Kopal’ c. Lin
and P. M? Morse ’ ’

The Committee approved the recomendations of the Physics
Department that
F. J. Corbeto

M. C. Newstein

G. Speisman
1.. S. Frishkopf

be appointed half—time Research Assistants in Applied Mathe-
matics and Machine Computation for next year (Corbato beginning
June). Mathematics and Electrical Mineering candidates will
be reported on next week.

Horse reported that Kopal's ONE contract for next year has
been approved and will be supervised by Jacchia.

Kopal reported that the Electrical Engineering Department
wished to hear the Committee's opinion on the continuing of
Uelsl'man's course in machine coding next year (Welshman has
left the Whirlwind project). The Committee felt that such a
course is an important one and that it should be continued. Per—
haps Adams of the whirlwind project could give it next year.

Morse reported that the Industrial Liaison Office (Mr.
Bevans) desired to fix the program and date of the proposed Con-
ference on the use of Largeoscale Computers in Industry. The
first week in May appeared to be a good time. Subsequent talk
with Mr. Bevans indicated that Wednesday—Thursday, May 2—3,
would be the best days. The proposal is to have Morse, Verzuh
and Adams talk the first morning on the general question of
machines, what they were and how they could be useda Wednesday
afternoon could be spent in hearing about the DA and visiting
it and Thursday morning could be spent hearing about and seeing
whirlwind (though this order could be reversed). Bevans would

"Tl

—m

n


Minutes of the Twelfth Meeting of the
committee on Machine Methods 0: Computation -2—

like to have short abstracts of each talk, to put in the
program. The Committee will have to reach final decisions
on this program next week.

The next meeting of the Committee will be Wednesday morn-

ing, March 14, at 10:00 11.14.
Puniﬁ. Morse,

Chairman


