TRIP REPORT
on

i. B. M. Corporation
580 Madison Avenue
New York 22, New York

July 24, 1956

F. ¥. Verzuh
July 26, 1956


®

1.0

2.0

8.0

9.0

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Introduction. « « os ¢ 2 oc ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ os » 5 s
Acoustical Measurements on the 704 Installation
Assignment of Space in the Computation Center .
Office Furniture Requirements . « « « = o = os o
Conference with Dr, Hurd. ¢ « « « ¢ « « « oo «
Conference with New Products Division « « o + «
New York Data Processing Center . « « » © © »
704 Training Course « « « o« ¢ s +» oo 5s © oo » s =

CoORCINBION. =o oo 7» » 4.0 » @ iss oie s)he" e 0.0


TRIP REPORT

Place Visited: I. B. M. Corporation

590 Madison Avenue
New York 22, New York Tel: Plaza 3-1200

Date of Visit: Tuesday, July 24, 1956

Visited By: F. M., Verzuh

Individuals Contacted:

Ss
¥.
S.
G.
P.
i.
R.
G.

Labate, Bolt, Beranek, and Newman C. €, Hurd, Director, EDFA

Gans, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill D. Pendery, New Products Div.
Heber, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill B. Oldfield, Data Processing Center
Palmeros, Syska and Hennessey Ww. Heising, New Products Div.
Hunter, IBM Real Estate Division LE. Eopley, Educational Dept,

C. Arnisted, EDPM Engineering

Riley, EDPM Sales
7. Hunter, Educational Representative

C.M.F, Peterson, M. I. T.

E SLES EEEE

1.0 Introduction

The prime purpose of this meeting was to determine the final machine

@ room layout for the 704 installation. In addition, however, during the course
© "of thd day, a number of sepavate meetings were held covering the following itéms:

1. Measurements of noise on the 704 machine,
2. Space layout of the Computation Center,

3. Real estate requirements -~ furniture, et al, for the
Computation Center,

4. Arrangement for the visit to the 704 ia Poughkeepsie,
5. ‘Discussions With tWe“New Products Division,

6. Discussion of the 704 training course.

Details regarding the discussions are presented in succeeding sections.

2.0 Acoustical Measurcmenes on the 704 Installation

Mr. Labate spent Monday, July 23 making noise measurements in the 704


-De

installation at 590 Magigop Avenue, AT thig Beeting he Presenteg Seven (7)
Summa zy Braphg Which indiegteq the Yesulty op thi day-long Beasuremenig.
h

Al thoy © is pp aring » techniegy Teport of hig findingg for the Computation
Center, a Tow conelyggn, Should pg Stated poy,

de The Principay noige generatopg in the 704 oom are the Type 704
na T 7

Labatge indicateg that the oom was weyz degigneg acousticalyy, Howevey,
the Boise level was Createg Primarily by the fang locatey in thege Machineg It
Wag agreed that Steps Would haye to be taken tq Correct thig difficulty, The
following Suggestiong Vere mado;

1, Examing the Possible Temoval of the fang irom the 704 733, ang
8, :

It became 2Pparent frog ou discusgigng that pe had an incomplete set
Of SoaSUrementg and ag igements have

ra & © measy :
on Saturday July 23 betweey 8:00 and 9:30 Qe = ot thig Time the 704 Will be
2 3

L8sigment op Space in the Computation Centep

At a Second Neeting held q¢ 12 oon Besgrs, P, Hunter, G. 7, Hunter
S, Habey, C. Peterson, and Verzun discusgeg the Pregent aSzignmont of the


a

2.9 Office Furniture Requirements

A brief Resting wag Reid io discuss the obli
gations of the IBM Corporation

in regard to the Payment of furniturs in various ooms of the Center, ym

that azy woulg Supply the Cquipment in the following areas:

 

i. The Hagnetic tape Cabinets, Unistoral Cabinets, carg files,
etc., in the 704 room,

4. Al} equipment, furniture, etc., in the customer engineering area,
S. All equipment, furniture, in ths schedule area,
6. All equipment, furnitupe, in the offices of IBN staff,

7. All Squipnment, furniture, in the offices of IBM &ppointees
from Visiting institutiong,

It was agreed that a Suggested list of such furniture would be Prepared in the
near future, and submitted to IBM for Consideration and approval.

5.0 Conference with pe. Burd

. ... , Dr. Huxd called a meeting io Jhform us that the original Proposed
Plan of Zlying the : ie by
Plane would Tequire rental o

date of August 24. This is eit to be impractical and undesirable for several
reasons. After Considering several alternatives, the following was agreed upon:

il. Dr. Hurd will issue ga letter of invitation to all attendees
to visit Ipy Corporation (at Imi's °Xpense} on one of the Zour
days -= August 2%, 27, 88, and/or 30, respectively,

2. A single, 20~passenger Plane will transport visitors to
Poughkeepsie, leaving MIT at 12 noon and yeturning to MIT
approximately $:30 thet evening,

3. This tour will include g trip through the IBM production
facilities, g demonstration of the 704 Computer, followed by a
dinner at the Homestes, .

In addition to “he above arrangements which IB is making to the registrants
on a gratis basis, Dr, Hurd wanteg to emphasize that IBM would be happy to
contribute to ga banquet (or other social arrangement) which would he arranged
at MiT during the two-week course,


6.0

7.0

8.0

8.0

Conference with New Products Division

At 8 meoting with Messrs. D. Pendery and ¥. Helsing, a number of the
704 alterations, modifications, etc., were discussed. In particular, the recent
1ist of RP, items were evaluated in light of the IEM-MIT mode of operation in
the Computation Center.

i

It was suggested that a copy of the MIT computer efforts should be

given to the group in order to provide them with certain writien materiel -

regarding pest MIT programming efforts in this area. After this manual has

been studied, a later meeting will be arranged to discuss additional requirements
on the ''future generation machines”.

New York Data Processing Center =

At a conference with Mr. Bruce Oldfield, Manager, Data Processing Center,
he was asked to provide a list of the RPQ items, additional features, alterations,
etc., currently available on the New York and Poughkeepsie machines. In this
manner, the MIT 704 would provide complete SRSLY to the two installations.

0ldfield was also asked to provide us with the list of control panels
and other equipment which are currently in-use at the other two installations --
again attempting to insure compatibility.

704 Training Course :

A number of meetinge were held with various members of the IBd :
Educational Department to obtain any information which could be used in the 704
course which is to be offered by HIT on August 20-31. It was finally agreed that
this matter could be handled by a separate meeting at MIT on Friday, August 27,
which would be attended by Messrs. E. Xopley, Se Best, G. T. Hunter, F. M. Yount
and other MIT 704 staff. ,

Conclugion

Generally speaking, this day-long session of meetings was highly
satisfactory. In certain cases, however, it was apparent that insufficient
factuel data wae available and steps were taken to obtain immediate information.
Specifically, Labate would obtain additional noise measurements at New York on
Saturday, July 28. Simllavly, Eopley, et al, will meet at MIT on Friday,

July 27, to help formulate the program for the 704 course, Finally, information
concerned with real estate -- furniture, equipment requiremenis, etc., will

be compiled during the next two weeks in order that orders may be placed,
purchases made, etc., during the current fiscal period. If this is done 2ov,
equipment will arrive on schedule and (we hope) at the completion of the
building on January 1, 1857.

F. M. Verzuh
July 26,1956

9

Ce


