CC-16 COMPUTATION CENTER

Magsachusetts Inatitute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Masgsachusectts

MEMORANDUM
To: Department Heads Date: April 10, 1957
From: P, M, Morse, Director

Subject: Approval of Requests for Computation Time at the Center

 

1, The Center has set up the rule that all research workers,
faculty or students, who wish to uge the equipment of the Center in the
courge of their research, must apply for approval of their computing plaans
and for assignment of machine time, using the forms enclosed. Machine time
for unclassified research, connected with graduate education, is free, but
we need the formalism of an application so as to have the chance to look
over computation plans before they are sptarted, to see whether they are
feagible and to see whether we can allocate the required time. (Mo classified
work will be done at the Center,)

2. The Center ig asking that each Departwent Head approve each such
application which involves either faculty members or students in his department,
before the application comes to us, We feel thig added requirement is desirable
becauge:

1. It gives you a chance to gee what use your department is
making of the Center (you may wish to l@ep a record of the forms you
have OK'do)

2, It gives us the benefit of your judgement of the value of
the proposed research to the educational activities carried on by
MIT. We do not ask you to judge the feasibility of putting the
problem on a computing machine (we will do that); we do asgk that
you approve only those requests which represent ugeful research in
the field of your dopartment and which contribute non-trivially to
the education of one or more students,

3. We do not agsk that you approve requests for machine time
from DSR projects, involving only DSR staff members in the prosecution
of the research of their project. Such purely project computation,
usually of a more routine nature, will have lower priority in machine
time asgignuents, will be expected to contribute finaacially to the
support of the Center, if time is assigned, and arrangements for
this work will be discussed between the Center and the Project
Supervigor directly, without needing to bother you, In any case, the
work mugst be publishable.

4., To approve an application, you should sign in the box on the
right-hand columnn, marked "Inst. Rep., Approval", circled in red in the enclosed
sample., We will not accept an application without such & gignature.

9. If you have any questiong about these procedures please call or

gee me or Frank Verzuh.