—_——

 

THE RAND CORPORATION :

1700 Main Street. Sante Monica California

27 March 1961 1-639

My. Shinji Ksieocka

Operations Research Center
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts :

Dear Me. Rateoka:

Under separate cover I have sent you a copy of the GQS progzam for the
709 (or T7090), together with an asgenbly listing. IT you would like the
symbolic progism cards, please let me know.

The TOO version operates essentially the ssme as the TOk version. I have
made only the changes which were necessary to have the old program operate
on the new machine. The new program has been designed to operate within the
standurd T09 FORTRAN Monitor system which is, I believe, in operation there
at M.I.T. Specifically, you should note the following points sbout the

T09 version:

1. The input tape is A2;
The output tzpe is AJ:
Tape AL is used during execution of the program:
No sense switches are used.

2. The program loads into location 400 (decimsl) and
above. (An absolute loader is loaded by the
a ta the ebsolute loader then loads
Gas.

3. The on-line clock is not used; therefore the REALT
(real time) LENGTH option is no longer allowed.

Lh, The PUNCH card is no longer used and the non-
stationary-input procedure has been changed. To
use the non-stationary feature, the following steps
are necessary:

a) make an initial run to determine parameter
locations;


Mr. Shinji Kataoka =D 3-27-61
L-6349

‘The complete operation deck format has been changed, of course,
to conform to the requirements of the TOQ FORTRAN Monitor.

I have included a small test data set with the prograi, to-
gether with the wesults of the ron using the test data.

If you have any further questions, please let me know,

GWA:ah

b)
c)

a)

xeypianch the non-gtationary date cards;

precede the deck of non-gtationary data cards
vith a card punched NONSTA in columns 1 through

2

place the resulting won-stationary deck Just
before the IERGTE card in the data deck and
run the new deck.

Sincerely,

George W. Armerding
Computer Sciences Department


