or — - a

COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes of the Second Meeting
October 26, 1953

 

Persons Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, F. Hildebrand,
C. C. Lin, P. M. Morse, W. W. Seifsrt,
FP. H. Verzuh

Horse and Versuh reported the results of a conference
with Messrs. Little and Foster concerning the operation of the
IBN equipment. They reported that it was finally agreed that
the projects who could afford ¢o pay for IBM time would have
first call on the equipment during the day but that research
projects and other educational work would have first priority
for work during the evening, and that when this work was approved
by the Machine Committee, there would be no charge for IBM time.
The evening work would, of course, require active participation
on the part of the research workers, and the machines would be
used on a "self service" basis. In order to support the rental
charges for the equipment, the projects would be charged at a
rate of $15 an hour. This means that educational research in
the Institute, which is approved by the Committee, will have
access Co the IBM equipment during the last part of the evening
hours without charge.

Seifert reported that the analogue machine project was
endeavoring to work out a similar arrangement that he would re-
port in more detall later.

Forrester reported preliminary estimates on the cost
of running and maintaining Whirlwind I and the MTC computer if
and when military gupport is withdrawn. He estimated that an
"adequate budget" for providing service and maintaining one or
the other of these machines, without additional development or
improvement of the machine, would rur about $00,000 a year.

This project imcluded a staff of 3 engineers and 7 technicians
plus the usual 46 per cent overhead on salary. If this support
could not be afforded, a form of less satisfactory service could
be provided for a lesser sum, approximately F50,000 a year, where
the machine would be used on a "self service" bamis. If both
machines were to be kept, the cost would not be twice this but
would be approximately Z120,000 or an "adequate basis" or per-
haps 375,000 on an "austerity basis". For competent service,

of course, there would be noeded also an analysis group similar
to that carried on by Adams at presend which would cost approxi-
mately 350,000 a year additions] on sn "adequate basis".

After some discussion it appeared that the Committee
could not strongly advocate keeping at the Institute both WWI

ee — Te,


- 2
Committoe on Machine Methods of Computation--Minutes of Second Meeting

and the MIC computer ip military financial Support were goinc
to be reduced in the neap future. The Committee agreed with

The next meeting of the Committee will be at 3:00 Peli.
Thur.day, December J. Verzuh will report at that time on a similap
estirate of costs for the IBM equipment and the differential analyzer.

JM: IM


