Minutes of the Ninth Meeting
of the |
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

February 7, 1951

Persons Pregents J. W. Forrester, Z. Kopal, C. Lin, P. M. Morse
: | and E. Reissner |

Morse reported a discussion with R. 8. Bevans and William
Weems, of the Industrial Liaison 0ffice, concerning a possible
conference for industrial executives on the possibilities for
the use of large computing machines in industrial research.
They had suzgested a day-and-a-half conference, the first half
day being a general discussion of types of machines and their
spheres of usefulness; a second hzlf day, a discussion of
analogue computers and a visit to the differential analyzersg
an<. a third hall day, a discussion of large digital computers
anc & visit to Whirlwind. Forrester brouzht up the question as
to whether this was not overlapping the similar conference on
nev communication technicgues to be run by Professor Fano of the
Electrical Enzineering Department. Forrester will talk to
Bevans and see whether this overlap 1s large or not. If the
overlap is not large, we can schedule the conference this
spring, perhaps on April 30 and May 1l; if the overlap is large,
the su ;gestion would be to wait until next fall.

The Committee discussed the program of the seminar to be
held Wednesday afternoons. Professor Aliis will talk this
week and perhaps continue next week. A Professor T, Jones, of
the Electrical Engineering Department, is proposing a thesis
on the efficlency and accuracy of large-scale analozue com-
puters. It was suggested that he could talk on this proposal
perhaps on February 1l4th or 21st, and at the same time the
seminear could visit the amalogue computer of Hall. Professor
Kopal will talk to Jones and see about the arrangements. Morse
suggested that Professor Buerger, of the Geolozy Department,
could report on a proposal for a spascial machine to analyze
x-ray data., This perhaps could be scheduled for February 2lst
or 28th. Mr. Rels is to finish his calculations on turbulence
in the near future and Lin suggested that he could report on
this elther February 28th or March 7th. Kopal's problem in
astrophysics 13 being worked on at present, using the "Reac",
The results of this work could be reported about March 1l4th.
It 1s requested that other suggestions for future seminar pro-
grams be sent in to Morse in the near future.