March 12, 1957

Director of Research
I.B.M. Corporation
590 Madison Avenue
New York 22, New York

Dear Manny?
~ I belleve I am to see you in New York at 10.00 a.m. on
Friday this week. I wanted to let you know ahead.of time some
of the things I wanted to talk over with you. As you know,
I.B.M. is in the process of installing a TO4 here for instruc-
tion and general research. We will use the TO4 as a plece of
laboratory equipment in a number of our courses but instruction
at the level we give at Tech will come as much by making the
machine avallable for students to do research as it will in
regularly organized classes. Consequently, we are setting up
to induce as wide a variety of research, using machines, as we
can. Since this 704 is also to be avallable to other colleges
in New England we need not confine ourselves to specifically
engineering problems, but should arouse interest in the use of
machines in the social sciences. We have started to lay out a
rather ambitious program in thls direction. As it grows I am
sure 1t will capture the interest of a good sized fraction of
our graduate students and thereby initiate them into the use

of machines in the most efficient way, I believe.

In order to supervise part of this research, to advise on
the possible uses of the machine and to investigate ways of
making the machine more useful, we are assembling a staff of the
Computation Center which will include a wide variety of experts
from electronics designers to soclal scientists with programming
experience. I.B.M. is supporti this work by donating the
machine and its maintenance co and by providing Research
Assistantships for some of the graduate students. It cannot
and should not support all of the staff which is needed to
implement this broad program. We have obtained financial
support for part of the staff costs from the National Science
Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation. Other support for
other parts of the program will have to be lokked for elsewhere.


Lo

 

 

88

a
:
By
|
i

1 will be very glad To see you again.
~ Tours,

Enclosures

PVM: LWH

NTR RR RR EN Na a


