M.I.T. Computation Center

Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE CONSOLE OFERATOR

DUTIES

 

'ge console operator operates the Electronic Data Processing Machine (EDPM) including
th: centr:l processing unit (CPU), the console, and all "on-line equipment'', such as
magnetic tape units, magnetic drum unit, card reader, card punch, and the line

printer, regpectively. He operates the CPU and assoc
operator console. sociated equipment from the

He must recognize the condition of the machine from the display of lights on the
conscle and thus interpret the reason for any stoppages which occur during normal
machine processing. He must be able to take immediate action based om his

interpretation of machine stoppage. He keeps a recoyd of all stops and causes for
later diagnosis.

He is in charge of the EDFM operators specifying which units are to be used, which
magnetic tapes are involved, how vesults are to be recorded, etc. Since the 700 series
machines are extramely expensive devices (rental costc average approximately
$12/minute), it is extremely important that the console operator be a qualified man.

QUALIFICATIONS | | ‘
1. Rducational Background: ' liigh school education.or equivalent is essential,

2. Natural Ability and Aptidude: ability to get along with people and direct the
work of others is essential. He must make rapid decisions since machine time is
expensive.

3. Previous Experience: o knowledge of EAM has proven to be extremely helpful.
it is estimated thet a minimum of three months is required to train a good
console operator.,

4., Technical Skiils: experience has shown that electronic technicians, EAM machine
operators, etc., develop into excellent EDFM console operators.

5, Compatibility: since the EDFM console operator is in charge of all machine
operations, it is imperative that he be able to get along with various programmers,
and other machine users. Depending on the mode of operation, his contacts may be
vith a single scheduler-dispatcher or with many company employeess Personal
compatibility requirements will vazry accordingly. -

o

Physical Appearance: a well-groomed appearance is desirable, particulerly in the
3.3.T. Computation Center where the equipment will be of a 'showplace™ character.

7. Aceurscy: Errors are extremely costly resulting in major fingncial losses to
the company. Hence, they should be minimized.