r—_—'——

oBe

operating costs irom the overhead which is part of the budget of all governmentally
and industrially supported research projects at the aniversity. ©Others obtain partial
support {rom long-term grants made directly for the center. In these two cases the
center makes no direct charge for any machine time used by any aniversity faculty
member, studsnt OF research project and no time is granted to any outside organization.

In cases where direct charges must bemade for machine time to those who can
afford to pay, itis important that the charges be realistic, that they include costs of
staif and administration of the Center, amortization charges for the machine and of the
installation, for example, and not just machine rental costs. A computing center

which is forced to sell the majority of its time in order to survive is an anomaly on &

 

university campus. {(Less than ten percent of the conferees represented centers which
sold more than 30 percent of their machine time). Whether the financial support for
operating the center comes from educational funds, overhead or from long-term grants
from industry oOF governraent, this support should enable the center to carry on its basic
educational and research activities, evea if support from sold time is cut off. Most
conferees felt the center should have a separate budget.

8. Service to the University - Because of its potential usefulness to nearly all
intellectual activities, all departments of the university should have easdy access to the
computing center {as with the univer gity library). In many institutions the center has

been established as an interdepartmental and interschool facility, with separate budget
and staff, though some of the staff may have joint appointments ¢o the center and to some

appropriate department. In these cages the director of the center should report to an
appropriate 2cademic authority, such as a Dean or Provost, not io & purely administra~
tive puthority, such as 2 registrar or ireasurer. In cases where the center is

administered by a particular academic department, 2 committee, with representation

 

from other participating departments, should be set up to advise on policies and procedures.