machine translation. Members of the staff of the
Computation Center are co-operating with a group
in the Institute’s Department of Modern Languages
to test some basic parts of this ambitious project.

Fortran has its limitations and drawbacks. There
are some problems for which it is inadequate, for
which it is best to use “machine language” directly.
But we will be able to make improvements as we
learn more of the 704’s behavior patterns. Machine
psychology is a popular field of research at the
Center just now. Some of the staff of the Computa-
tion Center and some of the Electrical Engineering
Department staff are co-operating to improve
sensory and memory ability of the 704. The oscillo-
scope output, attached to the machine, will be con-
nected, via a photocell, back to the machine memory
again to see whether such an optical feed-back loop
will make it possible for the machine to read a blue-
print, or a page of type, for example.

Some of the ways of learning how the computer
behaves are by programming it to play games. The
704 has been programmed to play ticktacktoe and
also checkers against a human adversary; it is now
being programmed to play chess, the Japanese game,
go, and to run off several problems of business,
athletic, or military competition which have struc-
tures similar to games. Such game-playing programs
are of two kinds. The simpler, and less interesting,
are for those games which are simple enough so
that the consequences of every move and counter-
move can be foreseen. In these cases — the ticktack-
toe is an example — all possible combinations are
stored in the memory and the program instructs the
machine which move to make in each possible situa-
tion. In these cases the machine is infallible — it
always makes the best possible move — simply be-
cause the human programmer has included the
complete situation, obtained by game theory or
otherwise, in the program. The machine just has to
work out the successive game theory solutions, as its
adversary makes each successive move.

The more interesting problems are found in those
cases for which the game is too complex for com-
plete analysis and when game theory is consequently
inapplicable. Here a different approach must be
used, the investigation of which may have conse-
quences of interest in many fields. Each possible

 
  

      
  
 
  
  

CORE STORAGE
B192 words

   

MAGNETIC DRUMS
8192 words

MAGNETIC TAPES
107 words

   

   

   
 

   
  
 
 
   
    
 

10,000
WORDS

2,500
WORDS

PER PER
SECOND SECOND

   
  
  
       
 

    

CONTROL ==

20,000~
OPERATIONS
PER

ARITHMETIC REGISTERS CARD READER

|00)
WORDS

 
 

PER
SECOND SECOND
15 40
WORDS WORDS
PER PER
SECOND SECOND

CATHODE
RAY TUBE

PRINTER

   

CARD. PUNCH

Schematic diagram of the functional parts of the 704 computer.

6

situation in the game, each configuration of pieces
on the board in checkers or chess, for example, is
initially evaluated with regard to its future advan-
tage to the machine or player. This can be done
fairly accurately for chess or checkers; experts at
the game can rank-order the configurations in terms
of chance of victory. The program then instructs the
machine to move to the next possible configuration
which has the greatest potential value.

Moreover, the machine can be programmed to
improve on the initial evaluation by working out
several moves of the game “in its mind” before it
actually makes its next move. The opponent’s possi-
ble countermove to the various moves it might make,
then its possible next moves and the opponent’s fol-
lowing countermoves for several steps in advance,
may all be “thought out” in advance by the machine.
It can then be programmed to choose that move
which shows the greatest chance of reaching an
advantageous configuration one, two, or more steps
in the future. The present 704 can be programmed to
explore three steps in the future in chess; when more
core memory is installed next summer it may be
able to look four steps ahead. Chess experts claim
to look five or more steps ahead, so the machine
cannot yet beat the champions, but it can usually
beat the tyro. |

In addition, the machine can be programmed to
improve its game —to modify its program in the
light of experience. The amount of learning possible
at present is quite limited, but various improvements
have already been suggested. Teaching the machine
to improve its performance, on the basis of its own
experience, has great promise, both practical and
theoretical.

The process of looking ahead several steps in a
process, of evaluating possible next steps in terms
of expected future benefits, is called dynamic pro-
gramming. It is a new branch of applied mathe-
matics. Some of the basic mathematical theory has
been worked out, but to speed up further develop-
ments a number of examples must be worked out
in detail. Most such problems are too complex to
work out by hand; they must be computed by
machine. The techniques of dynamic programming
will have wide application in industrial and military
planning, as well as in the playing of chess and
checkers. At present, members of the M.I.T. Opera-
tions Research Group are developing machine
programs for various simple industrial situations in-
volving the planning for purchase of raw material
and subsequent manufacture, in the face of fluctuat-
ing prices and demands, for example.

Our visitor may conclude, at the end of his trip
through the Computation Center, that in the near
future an electronic computing machine will be
considered to be as necessary to a university as a
chemistry laboratory; ability to program for a com-
puter will be as important a requirement for the
B.S. candidate as ability to use a slide rule is now.
Donation by I.B.M. of the facilities at the Computa-
tion Center has put M.LT. and the co-operating
institutions in New England in the forefront of edu-
cation and research in the use of these new instru-
mentalities.