THE SUPPORT OF MACHINE PROGRAMMING STAFF
FOR THE UTILIZATION OF
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS IN SOCIAL SCIENCE

:l‘he_.Fa c;l.ity_and__lis tiali&iszs

. The highoSpeed computing facility, to be installed by
IBM at the new Computation Center at MIT will be the largest and
most flexible facility in this country tc be devoted exclusively
to unclassified research and education. IBM will contribute more
than a £ifth of a million a year in its support for masintenance
and operation. What is needed, in addition, to make this an out- .
standing center for the 1nvestigation of digital computer
potentialities in 211 branches of sclentific research, 1s about
2100,000 a year for the support of a research staff, which can
work with sclentists In various flelds to develecp new and more
effective technigques of machine utilization.

Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in New
England to participate in the use of the machines, and IBM has set
up funds for Assistantships ©© enable graduate students, at MIT
and at the participating colleges, to spend time at the Center
learning to use the equipment. This Center and these arrangements
represent potentialities for new developments in social and
physical sclence of great and unexplored importance.

' , There will be no charge for machine time made to students
or faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the
routine aspects of operation will be taken care of by IBM, so that
those who know how to use such eguipment can use it, without cost,
up to the fourteen hours a day during which the machine willl be
avallable at first. A number of problems in economics are golng
to be put on the machine by Professor Solcow of MIT and by Professor
Orcutt of Harvard and, as other research workers in the socilal
sciences learn how to use the esgquipment, other preoblems will be
brought to the Center.

N

The Importance of Team Research

But an 1nstrumentality, by itzself, cannot produce new
research. To make the lmportant advances which are possible with
a computer of the speed and flexibility of this, one needs a team
of research pecple, some of whom know tThe machine and some of whom
know the research field. To get exciting new possibllities beyond
the stage of a “"gleam in the eye” we need, in addition to the
machine, a staff of experts in machine use;, ready to team up with
those sclentists who believe the machine can help them but are not
sure how, so that, between them, they can tranzlate the "gleam in
the eye” into new and important results.