Minutes of the. Fourteenth Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

March 21, 1951

gm Present: ‘3. R. Everett, B. Feshhach,’z'. Kopal, C. Lin,
" P. M. Morse, and E.»Reissner .

Morse reported that DIC has approved definite (rather than
tentative) appointments of assistantships in Applied Mathematics
and Machinepomputation; they feel the contract is near enough
completion to warrant this“ Morse also pointed out that, fox-the
iirst round of appointments, each Department could figure on a
total of about $10,000,» to be split as it saw fit (five half—time
at $2000 each, or four’fullutme at $2500 each, etc.). '

Kopal presented applications for assistantships for:
W. K. Taylor, Malcolm Frazier, 8. Yamamura, D. C. Leigh

'Ihe Coxmnittee suggests that the Electrical Engineering Department
appoint Taylor as Assistant in Applied Mathematics and Machine
Computation, if he is interested in such an appointment, that
lrazier also be appointed if the Department definitely felt he
mas up to their standard for other like appointments and that ac-
tion be postponed on the other two, to see what other applica~
{ions come in.

Morse presented the. application of L. Sartori (already here
as graduate student in Physics), recommended that the application
be held until we see what other applications come in. Three let-—
tars from mathematicians, inquiring. about the assistantships were
turned over to Beissner and Lin to find the wishes of their De-
;artmentu In one case (a post-doctoral man) Lin was to get more
tackground from the man, to turn over tthirlvind for considera-
tlon for his suitability for Adams' group.

There was a little discussion concerning the administration
c i‘ these assistantships. Students in each department would be
szpervised by the two Committee members from that Department and
nauld be assigned a specific task from the beginning, though it
i s understood that progress will not be rapid for the first—year
s an, since they will be learning the field. Each student must be