A In the long run, the warious social scientists in New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machline useful to them. But 1t takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers 1in
any field are reluctant to take wuch time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic detalls of its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed in our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using. computers
in social scilence now, we will have to use a team: a man who Knows
the field plus a man who knows the machine,

Need for 2 Research Staff in Machine Utilizaticn, an
Ingredient in the Team

This lagst ingredient is the part which 1s left out of
the contribution which IEM has made tc the Computation Center. To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have 2 full-
time staff of enthusiastlec machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do its tricks and to Jjoin with
research workers who come with a "gleam in their eye", forming
teams which can utilize to the fullesat the computer's -capabllitles
in research. - This staff will be hard, but not impossilble, to
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chiefly toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant of 235,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the particil-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun to make
gontact with those students who are interestsd in machine utiliza-

-
L - D 2™ -0 \ } S Ao T —~ . " o - ~ 1 o #™ » - S » . s o
tion. There are about two dozen IBM research assistants appointed
. i 1 |? A =

-t
-~

for this year. We should be able to pick from the best of these a
few who would like to stay on for two or three years wmore, after
they have obtained their advanced degrees. in engineering, mathe-
matics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potentlal
members of research teams
Budget for the: Social Sclence
st St Te. AT T - = = - a

To make uj caff which coulda handl 1@ 3o¢lal sclience
problems as wcll as tThe wwaical ience ones would n gnother
Pour or five good mi 2pSearen mel | to bhack
them up, plus a small budget for travel and incidental supplies
and equipment, approximately 335,000 a year for thre® years. 1T
would take about three vears to get rolling and the developments
should be reviewed at the end of three yearsa, tTo see where to go
next. Such a staif | b ore 1lmg : during vl eginning
stages of 1 ) el 3 ompu ien the prob-
lems are | | | ' d Wi 12ichel rener in
% 1 .
the team * he ns : ica te s 3ome of
G £ 10T°'€@ ] - = th
researc : ; ! D 8 ith a definlite goal
\nd w s L W * c rvial port for thne
contil Z, £ ) 5 ) 2NTe uld