comm-as 0N MACHINE METHODS OF COWATIOII

Minutes 9_i'_ the Second Heeti_n5
October 26, 1953

Persons Present: 11. Feshbaoh, J. H. Forrester, P. Hildebrand,

c. 0. Lin, P. H. Horse, H. W. Saran,
F. a. Vermh

Morse and Vex-zuh reported the results of a conference
with Messrs. Little and Foster concerning the operation of the
IBM equipment. They reported that it was finally agreed that
the projects who could afford to pay for 1314 time would have
first call on the equipment'during the day but that research
projects and other educational work would have first priority
for work during the evening, and that when this work was approved
by the Machine Omittee, there would be no charge for IBM time.
The evening work would, of course, require active participation
on the part of the research workers, and the machines would he
used on a "self. service" basis. In order to support the rental
charges for the equipment, the projects would be charged at a
rate of $15 an hour. This means that educational research in
the Institute, which is approved by the Committee, will have

access to the IBM equipment during the last part or the evening
hours without charge.

Seirert reported that the analogue machine project was

endeavorins to work out a similar arrangement that he would re-
port in more detail later.

Forrester reported preliminary estimates on the cost
of running and maintaining Whirlwind I and the mo computer if
and when military support is withdrawn. He estimated that an
"adequate budget' for providing service and maintaining one or
the other of these machines, without additional development or
improvement of the machine, would run about $90,000 a year.

This project included a staff of 3 engineers and 7 technicians
plus the usual #6 per cent overhead on salary. If this support
could not be afforded, a form of less satisfactory service could
he provided for a lesser sum, approximately $50,000 a year, where
the machine would be used on a "self service" basis. I: both
machines were to he kept, the cost would not be twice this but
would be approximately 3120 000 on an "adequate basis“ or per-
haps 375,000 on an "austerity basis“. For competent service,

of course, there would be needed also an analysis group similar
to that carried on. hy Adams at presentg which would cost approxi—
mately $50,000 a year additional on an "adequate basis".

After some discussion it appeared that the Comittee
could not strongly advocate keeping at the Institute both WI


s

2
Comttae on Machine Methods of Computation-Janus: or Second Meeting

and the MC computer 11‘ military financial support were gain”-
to be Reduced in the near future. The Committee agreeé 2:11;}:
Fort-enter that, if one was to he kept

The next meeting of the com

be at 3:00 pm.
Tum-ﬂay, December 3. Verzuh will report at that
estimate or costs for the

c iman'
MM: :34


