Minutes of the Ninth Meeting of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation ‘ —2-

It was reported that Dr. H. H. Goldstsin, of the Institute
for Advanced Study, Princeton, will give talks on Monday and
Tuesday, March 5th and 6th, on mathematical problems related
to machines. This will be announced by the Mathematics Depart-
ment in the near future. Professor Lighthill, of Manchester,
England, is to visit the Institute the latter part of March.
Professor Kopal is to see whether he could give a talk on the
Manchester machine for the Wednesday seminar.

The rest of the Committee Meeting was taken up with a
discussion of the Office of Naval Research program of support-
ing fundamental research using computing machines, particularly
the Whirlwind machine. This suggestion from ONE has been a
continuation or their $300,000-a—year supporting program. This
year the whole of this money went to Whirlwind. The suggestion
is that next year Morse should be made the official supervisor
of the prosect, that approximately $100,000 be turned over to
Whirlwind for maintenance and fundamental research on compo-
nents, approximately another $100,000 be assigned to Whirlwind
for the support of the group under Adams working on scientific
and engineering applications of Whirlwind, and that the re-
mainder of the money be available, under the control of the
Committee, to support fundamental research which needs the use
of computing machines. Part of this support would be in ap-
pointing half-time research assistants to carry out research
programs in this field. This would mean that there would be
available, beginning next year, between eight and fifteen rem
search assistantships which could be appointed by either the
Electrical Engineering, the Mathematics or the Physics Depart—
ment. They would be half—time appointments. These men would
then be assigned to the supervision of the Committee for work
in this general field. Some of them would then be assigned to
work on problems for Whirlwind, and some of them to other prob-
lems involving machines here at the Institute. Forrester and
Horse are to meet this week to draw up a tentative task order
for this program and to submit it to Stratton next Monday, the
12th, for him to take to Washington. Kopal pointed out that he
has appointed half-time research assistants on some of his
programs and that he would like to have these appointments also
hancled in the same manner with Committee cognizance over the
appointments. Forrester indicated that there might be one or
two additional appointments from some of his other programs.