Characteristice of the Machine Room - Space Specifications

Certain operational characteristics associasted with punched-
card machine operation must be recognized:

1. High-level illumination is required to minimime operator
error, particularly on the current 24-hour work schedule.
(The holes in the card appear particularly small at 2 s.m.).

2. A clean, dust-free area is required since all of the ma-
clines employ non~dust-proof wire relays. Maintemance is
minimiged in clean machine rooms. For example, the I.B.N.
Service Dept. blamed excessive machine malfunctioning in
1948 on the dirty condition prevalent in Bldg. 20. (A
Precipitron would be useful.) At the present loeation,
the machine service is down to 5% per month, whereas it
was as high as 50% in Building 20. (Part of this dirt
is due to the wood floors which collect dust, etc.)

3. Air gcounditioning or other means of celiminating. heat are
required. The 604 Electronic Calculator and the Card
Programned Calculator (CPC) dissipate 21,000 and 27,000 BTV
respectively. All IBM installations of this type (except
M. I. T.) are operated in air-conditioned offices.

4. Adeguate work space is essential to minimize the incidence
of human operator error.

Conglusion

This memorandum contains some of the facts associated with
the operation of the Office of Statistical Services. The present types
of service sre described, and the need for a central location for ef-
fective mechanigation of administrative activities is emphasized.

It is evideant that the proposed location in Building 20 will
require a certain installation cost and will demand extensive use of
couriers and transportation facilities. It is gquite evident that the
Statistical Services cannot be responsible for the communication and
transportation lines between it and each of the Administrative offices.
Clearly, each Aduministrative office should provide its own courier and
transportation medium. Statistical Services will sct on and sextice all
material delivered to it, but the responsibility of accurate and proper
delivery of imstructions and cards should reside with each individual
administrative office.

Naturally, this proposed modus operandi will fspose operational
difficulties on all associated operating personnel. The attendant cost
of operation will be increased and many of the present services may be
discontinued by the Aduinistrative Offices for they will become exces-
sively expensive. This condition may become sufficiently aggravated to
force discontinuance of most administrative activities. If this should
happen, it would be most unfortunate as many years of hard work would
have been wasted!