1 B.M. Research Assistantships
and Associateships

in Digital Computing Machine
Applications

OPEN TO GRADUATE STUDENTS IN THE PHYSICAL AND
SOCIAL SCIENCES, ENGINEERING, AND BUSINESS

For part time work in the Computation Center of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

in association with the laboratories of participating
colleges and universities in New England.

 

 

M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER

NEW ENGLAND
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
COOPERATIVE PROGRAM

A PPllCQthn F OTM for I.B.M. research appointments in digital computing machine appli-
cations, for part-time work at the Computation Center at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
in association with laboratories of participating colleges and universities in New England.

The applicant should complete and return this Form to the Institutional Representative of his school. In
addition, the applicant should submit to his Department Head two Letter of Recommendation Forms which
when completed by faculty members will also be sent to the Institutional Representative. The Representative
will then forward both Forms to the Director of the Computation Center. These Forms should reach the Com-
putation Center before March 1 for consideration of an appointment for the coming academic year.

1. Name

 

 

ge
(Last) (First) (Middle)
2. Home address
3. Address for reply
4. Degrees now held
(College) (Degree) (Field) (Year)

5. If you are (or will be) a graduate student: School
Degree toward which you will be working Field of study
Number of years of graduate study you have completed

6. If you are a staff member: School
Positiohsmte b s ta e e s b i e U Departiiént
Field of interest

7. This application is for a Research [] Assistantship; [] Associateship.

8. On a separate sheet, indicate in four sections:

. Your training and achievements in mathematics.

. Your training and achievements in computing machine practice.

. Your training and achievements in the field of your special interest.

. The reasons for your interest in high-speed computation and your plans for using knowledge gained

in this field.

O

(Signed)

 

(Date)

The Institutional Representative who receives this application should write on the
back of this form his comments concerning the relative standing and recommended
stipend for the candidate.