Extension of NSF G2940 k Page 6
Enclosure B, Continued

card-punching, testing and running of their problems. We

estimate $50,000 a year can come from payments from other
rojects for the programming service described, leaving about
70,000 a year to be obtained from other sources.

The Rockefeller Foundation has granted the Computation
Center about $100,000 for three years, beginning July 1, 1957,
for the support of a staff to investigate applications of
digital computers in the social sciences. Thus only about
$35,000 a year is needed to complete the support of the Center
staff, enough to support that part of the staff concentrating on
the physical science aspscts of the activity. In order to get
our plans well under way, this grant should be continued for
about three years (as with the Rockefeller grant), after which -
the pdr:gram should be re-evaluated to determine needs beyond
that date. =

Proposed Research - Possible Initial Directions of Investiggtigg

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input languages;
the possibilities of coding directly in mathematiecal, logical or
business language. ‘

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and auto-
matic error analysis.

3. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more
general expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomial sums for
simulating standard functions by a common block of instructions
but small sep2rate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and
methods of automatic determination of best grid spaeing, by trial
plue Richardson extrapeolation or other means.

4. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques for
communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, inecluding possible.
improvements in input-output equipment. |

6. Experimental analysis and control using data trans-
mitted directly between computer and experiment.

7. Investigation of micrcprogramming and other methods for
increasing the flexibility of computer design. The possibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a large-scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.