April 13, 1959

Academician 5. A. Lebedev, Director
Computation Center

Academy of Sciences

Moscow

U. 5. S. R.

Dear Academician Lebedev:

Since last September I have, as you can see, become Director of the Research
Computation Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. We
will have as our computer to use the Univac 1105, an equipment similar to

the two which are now being used by the Bureau of Census in Washington to
process the 1960 U. 5. Census. It has over 8, 000 words of magnetic core
storage, 32,000 words of drum storage, and 17 Uniservo tape units.

We plan to have a Summer Conference on Frontier Research in Digital
Computers from August 17-28 here in Chapel Hill, similar to the one held
last year in Ann Arbor. I am enclosing a copy of the announcement. After
this, the Association for Computing Machinery is to have its National Meeting
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 1, 2, and 3.

{ have written invitations to Dr. Ershov and Professor Kantorovich, copies

of which are enclosed, inviting them to give each a series of ten lectures at

the Conference, in the same fashion that your colleagues did last year at

Ann Arbor, under a similar agreement. After these lectures, Professor Perlis
and I would be pleased to have them go with us to Cambridge.

Unfortunately our conference here, because we, like Moscow State University,
do not have an electrical engineering curriculum here, but rather at Raleigh,

28 miles away, is not planned to have courses aimed atl the design and con
struction of actual hardware. I do not feel able therefore to invite any lecturers
from your group on circuitry or design. However, if you yourself, for example,
should be interested in coming and giving one or more lectures on the general
structure of digital computers in the Soviet Union, we would be very pleased.

These lectures, of course, are based as before on the agreements on exchange
of persons between the U. 8. A. and U. 5. 5. R., and we would expect that a
similar invitation would be issued to a corresponding number of U. 5S. computer
scientists to visit your establishments and lecture to your or similar groups.

I have talked to Bean Mittiman of Armour Research Foundation in Chicago, who


Academician 3, A, Lebedev

Page Two April 13, 1959

could lecture in Russian about the Computational System for the Univac 1105
there, and who would be interested in making such a return trip. I have also
talked to Dr. Nicholas Metropolis of the University of Chicago, who has
evidenced interest in such a visit or series of lectures in the U. 8. S. R., to
Dr. Householder, of course, to Dr. Jack Moshman, a statistician and
Secretary of the Association for Computing Machinery, and others. I am sure
that if you have the names of these or other U, S. computer scientists that

you would like to invite in return, a suitable group could be arranged to visit
you.

I am very pleased that my leadership of our Computation Center here now
allows me to plan such exchanges further, and hope that the trips of last year
can be duplicated, If you and, of course, Academician Dorodnitsin, would
like to join the party, we would of course be exceedingly pleased to have you
suggest that, and arrange to have the size of the groups extended. However,
I must again warn you that there will be little emphasis on actual machine
hardware at the Chapel Hill meeting, with somewhat more at the Association
for Computing Machinery meeting in Cambridge.

We would again plan to arrange meetings along the route from New York to
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill to Cambridge, and Cambridge to New York for the
visitors to meet and talk to other American computer scientists, but I think
they would probably meet almost everyone of interest either at Chapel Hill
or Cambridge.

Professor Perlis is joining me in this invitation, and hopes to have further
discussions with Zrshov on their mutual interests. My wife, of course, would
be pleased to mest you if you could come, since she has heard many stories
of your hospitality at your dacha.

The main purpose of this letter, of course, is to begin correspondence about
a second such exchange of lecturers. I hope that you and Academician
Doroduitsin, to whom I am writing a similar letter, as well as Professor
Kantorovich and Dr. Ershov, will feel that this is a good idea. I myself value
highly the trip that I made to the Soviet Union last fall, as do all of my friends
who went with me. The details of the final exchange, of course, can he
negotiated in other letiers between now and the date of the conference, but I
would appreciate an answer as early as possible since I have plans as to the
lecture schedules, ete., that must be made before June 15. I hope you, of
will apswer in Russian, which I wish I could write better!

Sincerely yours,
Ww. Coan lef

John WW, Carr, III, Director
Research Computation Center

   

cc: Professor A, J. Perlis
Dr. W. M. Whyburn, Vice President
University of North Carolina
Professor Philip Morse, M.I1.T. Computer
Laboratory, Cambridge, Massachusetts


