COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
‘ Minutes of the Third Meeti
Academic Year '52-753

Persons Present: C. W. Adams, S. H. Caldwell, H. Feshbach,
' J. R. Forrester, J. A. Hrones, C. C. Lin,
P. M. Morss, E. Reissner, and W. W. Seifert.

 

The subJect of the discussion at this meeting was the
organization of courses in the machine computation field. Forregster
indicated that there were several types of course: _a this field,
one set primarily of interest to the builders of machines. sSugh
courses have arisen naturally ot the Institute, chiefly in the .
Electrical Engineering Department, and there seems ©to be no problem
concerning theilr presentation or planning. On the other hand, there
'is a growing need for courses for persons who wish to use machines.
Here a certain small amount of material on what is inside the "black
boxes" is needed, but the primar emphagis should be on the operating
characteristice and on the use of the machine, : . |

. Morse pointed cut that the Mathematics Department now had
a course in the mathematics fundamental to machine caleulation. There
was some discussion as to the advisability of increasing the materiel
on numerical computation in M351 and on perhaps including a small ,
amount of material in M22. o definite agreement was reached on these
matters, however.

 

After some discussion there seemed to be n general agreement
on the need for a course a2t the senior level which would involve a
survey of machines and their properties, somewhat along the lines
gilven on pages 1 and 2 of the appended memorandum from Adams. It was
agreed that the number of Elactrical Engineering pre-requisites for
this course should be kept o2t a minimum in order to attract students
from as wide a variety of ficlds as possible. The ¢ xact details of
Ry the material included could not a% present be agreet upon, but the
; genaral scope of the material as given in Adams' outline wag felt to
| be correct. Hrones and Reissner and Feshbach indicated asgreement
| that some such course would be a useful addition.

There was not time for g general discussion of the more

advanced professional courses for professional users of the machines
or builders of machines. Though a-certain amount of @iscussion was