3

be financed indirectly by contributions from each project which
uses it, if this were considered to be the most desirable way of
keeping it going. At present, however, support by contributions
from established research projects can support only about a third
of the $100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the most
fruitful research of all, the unknown results which are sure to
come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together with
the economist, psychologist or sociologist' on the faculty of one
of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with only a
"gleam in his eye" .

Possible Initial Directions for Investigation

As indicated, we cannot write down in any detail the
directions which this research effort will take, as -the various
teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immediate interest and which, in addition,
should provide hints as to still more important applications.

A, One of these is the deeper investigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 70% is too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines
are now' programmed to do ordinary arithmetic,a afew programs have
been devised to make the machine obey the rules of Boolean logic
and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make
the machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the
logic of a game. Different sciences and branches of learning
have their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetics each have patterns of thought which do not exactly
duplicate those of physics» Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which corres-
pond more closely to these other patterns. With a machine of the
flexibility and storage capacity of the 70k, such research is
worth while" It will have to be tackled, at the beginning, by
teams of experts in the fi ls of interest, together with mathe-
matical logicisns who know =achine operation.

 

B. Another gen—w
the storage and rapid ac

: of lang * 9
example. several s
be found quickly and
"bugs" in such sche
information of the
to be orﬂ ‘
tation Center will
the proposed soher .
members of the Cent
information an:

   
 
 
  
    
   
 
   
 

 

 

come apparent only when masses of
several hundred thousand items, are
The new installation at the Compu-
Vity of this size. Some of
out, and others developed, by
g with persons familiar with the
a project in machine

Mp u"er the directbn of Professor
develops, it will need the
lists and will need the use of a
slation project is already
ation, but parallel work by the

” 2 rapid access to large~quantity

  
 

    
   
  
 

 

Locke of
help of m
machine t o
supported ‘

CompotaLicn