Minutes of the Ninth Meeting
of the |
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

February 7, 1951

Persons Presents J. W. Forrester, Z. Kopal, C. Lin, P. M. Morse
and E. Reissner |

Morse reported a discussion with R. 8. Bevans and William
Weems, of the Industrial Liaison Office, concerning a possible
conference for industrial executives on the possibilities for
the use of large computing machines in industrial research.
They had suggested a day-and-a-half conference, the first half
day being a general discussion of types of machines and their
spheres of usefulness; a second hzlf day, a discussion of
analogue computers and a visit to the differential analyzers
anc. a third hall day, a discussion of large digital computers
anc a visit to Whirlwind. Forrester brouzht up the question as
to whether this was not overlapping the similar conference on
nev communication techniques to be run by Professor Fano of the
Electrical Engineering Department. Forrester will talk to
Bevans and see whether this overlap 1s large or not. If the
overlap 1s not large, we can schedule the conference this
spring, perhaps on April 30 and May 1; if the overlap is large,
the su gestion would De to wait until next fall.

The Committee discussed the program of the seminar to be
held Wednesday afternoons. Professor Aliis will talk this
week and perhaps continue next week. A Professor T, Jones, of
the Electrical Engineering Department; is proposing a thesis
on the efficiency and accuracy of large-scale analozue com-
puters. It was suggested that he could talk on this proposal
perhaps on February 14th or 21st, and at the same time the
seminer could visit the amalogue computer of Hall. Professor
Kopal will talk to Jones and see about the arrangements. Morse
suggested that Professor Buerger, of the Geolozy Department,
could report on a proposal for a spacial machine to analyze
x-ray data, This perhaps could be scheduled for February 21st
or 28th. Mr. Rels is to finish his calculations on turbulence
in the near future and Lin suggested that he could report on
this elther February 28th or March 7th. Kopal's problem in
astrophysics is being worked on at present, using the "Reach,
The results of this work could be reported about March 14th.
It 1s requested that other suggestions for future seminar pro-
grams be sent in to Morse in the near future.


Minutes of the Ninth Meeting of the
Committees on Machine Methods of Computation ; —2=

It was reported that Dr. H, H, Goldstein, of the Institute
for Advanced Study, Princeton, will give talks on Monday and
Tuesday, March 5th and 6th, on mathematical problems related
to machines. This will be announced by the Mathematics Depart-
ment in the near future. Professor Lighthill, of Manchester,
England, 1s to visit the Institute the latter part of March.
Professor Kopal is to see whether he could give a talk on the
Manchester machine for the Wednesday seminar.

The rest of the Committee Meeting was taken up with a
discussion of the Office of Naval Research program of support-
ing fundamental research using computing machines, particularly
the Whirlwind machine. This suggestion from ONR has been a
continuation of their $300,000-a-year supporting program. This
year the whole of this money went to Whirlwind. The suggestion
is that next year Morse should be made the official supervisor
of the project, that approximately $100,000 be turned over to
Whirlwind for maintenance and fundamental research on compo-
nents, approximately another $100,000 be assigned to Whirlwind
for the support of the group under Adams working on scientific
and engineering applications of Whirlwind, and that the re-
mainder of the money be available, under the control of the
Comittee, to support fundamental research which needs the use
of computing machines. Part of this support would be in p=
pointing half-time research assistants to carry out research
programs in this field. This would mean that there would be
avallable, beginning next year, between eight and fifteen re-
search assistantships which could be appointed by either the
Electrical Engineering, the Mathematics or the Physics Depart-
ment. They would be half-time appointments. These men would
then be assigned to the supervision of the Committee for work
in This general field. Sociie of them would then be assigned to
work on problems for Whirlwind, and some of them to other prob=-
lems involving machines here at the Institute. Forrester and
Moree are to meet this week to draw up a tentative task order
for this program and to submit it to Stratton next Monday, the
12th, for him to take to Washington. Kopal pointed out that he
has appointed hslf-time research assistants on some of his
programs and that he would like to have these appointments also
handled in the same marnmer with Committes coznizance over the
appointments. Forrester indicated that there might be one or
two additional appointments from some of his other programs.


Minutes of the Ninth Meeting of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation -3=

The most urgent item in this seems to be to get out an
announcement of the availability of these research assistant-
ships for next year to send to a selected list of mathematics
departments, physics departments and other interested sources
of graduate students. Morse is to work up a tentative announce-
ment, is to talk with the heads of the three departments in-
volved and will report progress at the next meeting. The next
meeting of the Committee will be at ten o'clock Wednesday,

February 14.
Ns ere i

Chairman


