/‘ ,
// //3 7‘
Reno to: Dr. J. A. Stratton, Provost / % ’

From: Professor P. 1!. Horse, Chairman, Institute Comittee
on Machine Computation and numerical Analysis

Subject: Proposed Conference on' Mathematical Tables

1. With the reduction of the activities of the
wreau of Standards in the Nunerical Analysis field, there
is left no organization with the responsibility of seeing
that numerical tables of new and useful functions, needed
in research and engineering, are computed, printed in a sat-
isfactory form and made available to the persons and organi-
zations needing then. The need is not for another large
organization, but some central group for planning and coordi-
nation, vith some funds available to finance editing and
publication.

2. With the growing use of large, high-speed
computing machines, there is a need for a re-evaluation of
the whole question of mathematical tables. It is not that
such tables are less needed; there are new waysof making

tables, and it may be that tables should be produced in a
different for: now.

3. Consequently, there is an urgent need to call
together a small group of persons interested in tables of
functions, both producers and users, to consider these and
other questions and to make recommendations to some national
agency as to the steps this country should take so that the
United States should contribute its share in providing these
tools for science and technology.

14. The National Science Foundation has evidenced
an interest in this field and has invited a proposal for

such a conference and a request that the NSF provide the
conference financing.

5. Accordingly, it is proposed that the Institute
suggest to the Science Foundation that there be organized a
two-day Conference on Tables of Mathematical Functions, to
be held at the Institute sometime this scanner, to be Jointly
sponsored by the Foundation and the Institute and to be
financed by the Foundation. This should be a working Con-
ference and as such should number not more than 25 members,
chosen from those mathematicians, computers, acadenic and
industrial scientists who are actively interested in tables
of functions, either as producers or users. The tentative
agenda would he:


!'

1. How are tables made?
2. What functions need to be tabulated?
3. What form should tables have?

. What should this country do about producing
tables?

It is suggested that the conference room in the Hayden Library
be used and that arrangements be made to house the oonferees
together, if possible. Conclusions of the conference, and
whatever recommendations are arrived at, would be published
for presentation to the Science Foundation and to the Institute
and for distribution to other interested parties.

6. This conference can be planned and organized
by the Institute Committee on Machine Calculation and Numerical
Analysis, which has the following membership:

Philip H. Horse, Chairman, Professor of Physics

S. H. ‘Jeldwell, Profeusor of Electrical Engineering
Herman Feshbech, Associate Professor of Physics

J. w. Forrester, Director, Project Whirlwind

F. B. Hildebrand, Associate Professor of Hethemsties
J. A. Hrones, Professor of Mechanical Engineering
c. 0. Lin, Professor of Mathematics

7. The budget required would be for travel and
subsistence expenses of the participants and for the prepara-
tion and publication of the Report of the Conference. If we
assume that some of the conferees come from Washington and
some from California, we might expect an average fare plus
personal expenses of about $180 a person. In addition, there
will be some secretarial costs, publication costs and inci—
dentals, so the budget would appear to be as follows, for 25
participants:

 

Travel fare (average RT 3140)» ------------- $3,500
Expenm (average for 2 days, 31:0) --------- 1,,ooo
Secretlrial aid--—---———u—---_ -------------- 200

Producing and distributing report
(100 eager}, est.) ------------------------ 300
Incidencels --------------------------------- ___'.ggg
Total $5,200

This would appear to be a reasonable figure. If the cost
tamed out to be 1:33 (some participants might come at their
own or other expeue), the emcee cm be returned to the
Foundation.

8. It 5.: proposed that the National Science
Foundation he rem: ted to he co-smnsor of such a conference


-3-

and to provide funds as per the estimated budget. We esti-
mate it will take about three months to organize the con-
ference after we are assured or the Foundation's support.

If such assurance can be forthcoming in the next month or
so, the conference could be held in June; it assurance comes
later, the conference could he held in September. Final
decision on dates would have to take into account the dates
of other conferences at the Institute.

NM
Philip Parse
Chairman, Committee on Machine

Computation and Numerical Analysis


