Minutes of the Eighth Meeting
of the |
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

January 17, 1951

grsons Present: H. R. Boyd. C. d, Draper, H. Laning, C. Lin
£ P. M. Morse and E, Feissner x i

The Committee met with Dr, Draper and his group to discuss
possible relationships, particularly cencerning the differential
anzlyzer., First, we asked the opinion of this group cencerning
possible courses in machine techniques. Draper indicated that
there might be between 15 and 30 men available each yezr for
training end for courses in this field. He indicated that a
basic course with prerequisite M351 and M352 would be needed,

‘end that, in addition, special courses on various types of

machines would be useful. This discussion will be of uelp to |
the Committee in its further study of the problem, |

The Committee went on to discuss the problem of the dif.

~ Terential analyzer. Dr, Draper's group took over the analyzer

tae first of July. For the first two wontis the machine was
down veing overhauled. During October and Novewber it worked
almost full time on problems for Draper's project. At present
there is avallable a certain amount of time for outside work,
and the project would welcone suggestions fron the Counittee
és to the type of work it could and should take on. It was
pointed out that for the machine to be in operating condition
requires a staff of ebout 5persons -- one teclinician, one
machinist and three programming staff -- and that these people,
with thelr salaries end with the necessary overiead charges,
cost about $20,000 a year. However, for those times when the
machine 1s not in full use some of the staff can be taken over
to work on other parts of Draper's project so that in a con-
tinuing program the cost per year would be somewhat less then
the $30,000. The indications were that Draper's project could
continue to use about forty percent of the differential ena-
lyzer's time almost indefinitely and that about fifty percent
of the analyzer's time might be available for other work.

In answer to & query, Draper stated thet he felt the
project would probably prefer to continue to control the dif-
ferential analyzer for at least one more year, and that, in the


Mirutes of the Eighth Meeting of the
p & Committee on Machine Methods of Comgutetion A

ensuing interim between now and the first of July 1952, he felt
tney could make arrangeuents so that tne extra fifty percent of
tne anslyzer's time would be made available to the Institute
end to other projects with the assistance and advice of the Com-
mittee. It was felt that precedents could be set up concerning
those projects for which transfer of funds was needed snd those
researches wanich could be given the use of the mschine without
charge, It was suggested that we work these precedents up
mutually as the exemples came along. This general proposal
seemed quite satisfactory to the Committee, and Morse indicated
that he would mention this discussion to Dr. Stratton, empha-
slzing, however, that Draper had not reacused a finsl decision
concerning these questions.

In answer to another query, Laning and Draper felt that
Verzuh could be relieved of his responsibilities concerning the
differential analyzer this next term. They felt it was wise to
give Verzuh time to get his doctor's thesis under way, and felt
that the Spring Term of this year night be tae best time to do
S50. |
Horse mentioned a possible commercial use for the differ~
entiel analyzer which had come to the attention of Professor

a Den Hirtog. Arrangements were made to confer with the repre-
sentetives of this company to see whether the project was ons
merlting work on the mecaine.

Morse reported a coming meeting zt Princeton concerned with
training for the use of computing machines. He asked that the
members of the Committee make suggestions on possible subjects
for discussion at this meeting. Tie thesis proposal of Salzer
was discussed. It was agreed that Morse would write to Brown,
saying tnat the Commlttee recommended Salzer's thesis be ape
proved by the Electrical Engineering Department, snd that Kopel,
being on the thesls committee, would keep in touch with the
work, The Committee also discussed the proposal for a labora
tory course in digital couputers to be given this coming term
by Mr. Adams. It was &greed tnat Morse should write the Elec-
trical Engineering Department recoumending that this course be
given as a special problem course this coming term, the possi-
bility for permenent course number being taken up later,

The next weeting of the Committee will be some time the
first week of the second term, It was cgreed thzt the Come


YER

 

yinutes of the Eighth Meeting of the
i Committee On Macnine Methods of Computation =3=

mittee members would let Miss Deininger (extension 851) know
what their cvailable pours are sO tnut the time could be seb

up.

NE

Phil pi, Morse,
Chairman


