COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 33, Massachusetts

Date: February 10, 1960

Memorandum to: Dr. C. R. DeCarlo, Assistant General Manager,
Data Systems Division, IBM Corporation

From: Philip M. Morse, Director, MIT Computation Center
Sub ject: Replacement of TOL by a T7090

Background: In June, 1957, somewhat less than three years
ago, an LBM 704 was installed at the Computation Center by IBM,

under a special agreement whereby IBM maintains the equipment,
contributes toward amortizing the additions to the Compton Laboratory
which house the Center and supports a number of research assistants

and associates who assist users of the machine, and MIT provides

the staff and operates the Center for the use of MIT and other
cooperating New England colleges and universities. The primary

purpose of the arrangement is to enable students and faculty of

these institutions €o learn how to use high-speed covputing machines
effectively, so that the next generation of scientists, engineers

and industrial executives will be able to exploit machine capabilities =-
in other words, the primary purpose is to demonstrate that such

machines are as important a part of the educational equipment of a
modern college as are chemistry laboratories, for example. A

Secondary purpose is to foster research in The use of computing machines,
particularly in those fields of application which have not yet been
explored or exploited fully.

To this end, priority on 704 time has been accorded to
regular class use by courses in machine programming and applications,
to students using the machine in their thesis research and to |
research projects investigating new techniques of machine use.
Particular attention has been given to making it easy for the out-
of-town users: mail service, special scheduling during visits and
saturday operation for those who cannot come to Cambridge during
week days.

Present Situation: This program has been outstandingly
successful: hence the present memorandum. Class use of the TO4
has grown rapidly; at MIT there is now a freshman course in machine
use, four upper-class and a number of graduate courses which use
time on the machine, in addition to the sequence of special coding
courses which are glven by the Center staff during each term and
sumer. A number of other colleges bring some of thelr classes in
for one or more laboratory sessions. Class use will expand further,


I

but its expansion wlll be hampered by the limitations of access
to the 704, as will be discussed later.

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded
apldly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their worl
including their class exercises). But this use tends to be gelf-
limiting for, as scon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec-
late The possibilities in education and research of computers, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campus.
By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions have machines
of Their coun. These are smaller machines, of the 650 type, {with
rger machines projected), so these institutions still come

wd =,

to the Center to use the T04 Yor thelr bigger “jobs; but it does
mean chat the use of the Center by the other New England colleges
will Tend to level off to a reasonable load (about one shift, it
now appears) rather than growing continuously, as the MIT usage is
doing. his result, of course, is in accord with our conviction
chat computers should be as prevalent as chemistry laboratories,

in contrast, the MIT use of the TOY for research into new
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisly all
requests for machine time for such work, let alone routine Dro ject
calculations of the "production-run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which has
herevofore been reserved for IBM use. In addition to the research
in solid-state theory, in meteorology and oceanography, which now
depend completely on machine computation and could already use more
time than we can allot them, there are a number of rYesearch projects

which are basic to the development of new uses for computers, and,
inteed, to the development of computers themselves, which are already
handicapped by shortage of machine time and limitation orf TO4
capacities. To mention a few:

Programming Development. The Center staff has already
developed an automatic operator routine which 1s being adopted by
other 704 users. More general assembly programs; such as the
Linking Segment Subprogram Loader. which combines Fortran, SAP arg

other special codes; COMIT, which enables the 70! to be used on

language translation problems; and LISP, which enables the machine
to handle non-numerical logic, such a8 algebraic and other symbolic
manipulation, are being developed and tested. The work at MIT in
this fleld, since Whirlwind days, 1s well known.

Mer ea 2. : : ~~ ta - re reel J

iime-sharing Techniques. We already have a typewri

connected to the 704, which works on a time-sharing bas With

regular operator routine, So new programs can be debugged at the
™
~d
2

- ds N A Yn ~ J. -— - - . he a = * oe i) . - ~~ x pop ~ - - a a hy n=
SAME Tlme tvhat Te gula 2 coupuraclions are be ing CRT Iie out on cner
T° b YTS LY "3 "nr 71% 3 1 er } 3 = ’ J ~~ yy om] ——- -~ « Lm ~ ="
provlems,. for Sample. The TO04 cannot effective Ly aAcCCOninoGate more
Eo < - \ - do — - T Se - - a Te a 3 ah dT X my = oN om gy = ‘ LID -~. be | 1
chan one or two 8uch satelite channels, but the Center staff is not


P=

at work on the design and programming required to provide a T090
with 10 to 30 such "substation consoles" of various effective speeds
and capacities, which can be placed at appropriate places around MIT,
some perhaps in classrooms. The ultimate goal is to make the fastest
and most sophisticated computer as accessible and convenient to a
person working with it as a dial telephone is. This development will
‘not only open up new research areas, as indicated later, but also
will substantially simplify and expedite the process of producing
and debugging new programs, We believe all large machines will
eventually use time-sharing techniques in order to achieve their
ultimate capabllities; thus the research now begun at the Center
will be of general benefit to the development of the computer field.

fachine-guided Education. Computers can, of course, aid in
grading examinations, scheduling classrooms and students and do

other clerical tasks incidental to large classes. But computers

also can be programmed to carry out some of the detailed question-
and-answer interchange which occurs in recitation sections. The
Center staff is now working with the Language Department at MIT

to program the TO to guide a student through some of the phases

of learning a new language, and are discussing the possibilities

of training students in the details of mathematical manipulation by
machine. Here the machine would pose questions for the student to
answer and, on the basis of the answers, would go on to other
questions, as in a recitation section. To avoid intolerable con-
gestion at the main input console (and also waste of computer time),
several students must be able to work with the machine simultaneously,
sharing machine time with regular computation. Therefore further
development of this research will shortly require a flexibility the
704 lacks but the T090 does possess. Potentially, the use of com-
puters will help to solve the problem of giving individualized
training in the sciences at all levels, without excessive demands

on the time of able teachers.

Machine=scientist Cooperative Research (Synergy). in

addition to the examples just mentioned, chere are many other research
programs which can only progress effectively if the machine is

able to carry out calculations on immediate demand and display the
result or feed it back immediately into the experiment, so the
experiment or the scientist can go on to the next step and request

the next computation in turn. On the 704 this would require the
exclusive use of the machine, though only a fraction of the TO4

speed would be used; obviously again, time-sharing techniques are
needed.

These, and many other programs now in progress, such as the
character-recognition studies, the research on economic forecasting
and on operational behavior using large-scale simulation techniques,


sis

should be of particular interest to IBM, for they have direct
bearing on the progress of computer design and utilization. They
represent the sort of cooperative research between experts in

~ different fields which MIT does so effectively, and they involve
the combination of research and education for which MIT is pre-

eminent. This work deserves support by IBM, in addition to the
educational activities which are already being supported by the
present contribution of the TOU. They can most effectively be
supported by the installation of a T7090, replacing the 704, in
the near future; MIT will then be able to provide the ancillary
equipment to push ahead with dispatch. Because of the "inter-
connectedness” of much of this research, it can best be carried
out (perhaps it can only be carried out) in the atmosphere of
mutual cooperation and exchange of information provided by the
Computation Center.

Outlock for the Future: The activities mentioned above

are only a part of the research, at MIT and at the associated
institutions, which desires to use the facilities of the Computation
Center. Obviously no single computing machine can be itself satisfy
indefinitely the continually growing demands from the New England
educational institutions, for all their research and educational
computer needs. However the facilities of the Center need not,
and probably should not, satisfy all the demands. A much more
realistic task would be to concentrate on 1) the educational tasks,
which will be supplemental to the on-campus small machines for the
other New England colleges and which, for the MIT class needs, can
be improved in efficiency by time-sharing techniques; 2) on thesis
research; and 3) on just those aspects of research which advance the
design, programming and utility of the computer in new fields.

= Research programs in other new directions, which involve machine

- use (mwetmrology, nuclear reactor design and the like) should only

be supported by the Center by grants of time while they are in the
formative stage, before they are far enough along to be able to
ask for financial support, for further computation, in Their own
right. By the time they have developed their programs and their
special techniques of wachine use, and are ready to exploit these
methods by long “production runs, they should be in a position to
obtain financing to make these runs cn one of the several other
Simllar machines which are or will be in operation in the vieinity.

 

Even with this sort of limitation on the use 'of the Center
facilities, the demands on the Center will grow. But the growth,
if thus limited, can, we believe, be handled by the cooperative
effort of IBM and MIT. A T7090 within the year would; not delay most
of the worlk outlined above too, seriously. And, as outlined below,
it would be able to handle them for several years, while plans are
made for the next step. On the other hand, if a 7T09(Q cannot be

a |


=H

provided soon, several of the projects mentioned above will have
to terminate or else will have to use other machines, which would
inevitably mean the dissipation of the Center's usefulness in
coordinating this sort of research.

It is not intended that the Center should have a monopoly
of all computing around MIT; this would be unrealistic and, as
indicated above, impossible. But it must play an active role in
supporting and instigating research into new applications if it
is to continue to be the focus of new ideas and of exciting activity
which will attract, train and inspire the new generation of
machine experts.

Proposal: It is proposed that some time during the summer
or fall of 1000 a T7090 be substituted for the present 704. Details
of the specific equipment to be included are already under dis-
cussion with IBM staff. Several data synchronizer channels should
be included, and a disk memory, in addition to a variety of input-
output equipment. In the meantime The Center staff will be preparing
pilot models of the substation, time-sharing consoles, and the
related program modifications so that the time-sharing aspects of
the research can start as soon as possible after the T7090 is
installed. The Center staff will of course continue its close
cooperation with the various IBM research groups, so the design
implications of the time-sharing developments will be available to
these groups as the work progresses, and so that minor changes in
the T7090, to improve substation effectiveness, can be made with
expedition and mutual understanding, either before or after the T090
is delivered.

The total load on the T0090, the work of the cooperating
institutions, the class and thesis use and the machine-use research
discussed above, would initially use more than one shift of machine
time, but probably would not use more than two shifts for the first
year. Consequently it would be possible for IBM, during the first
year of operation, to utilize the third shift in a manner similar
to what was done on the 704 during its first year of operation.

It is likely that this IBM usage would taper off, as it did with
the 704, so that as the program outlined above expands, it could
eventually use all three shifts (plus Saturdays): the New England
colleges taking up to one shift, the MIT classroom and thesis work
taking up to another shift, and the new-applications research taking
up the rest of the time. MIT would supply the operating and
programming staff, in addition to the management and coordination
with other colleges; IBM would supply maintenance, amortization of
bullding space, support of the research assistantship program and
reimbursement of MIT's expenses in the cooperative program, as it
does at present with the TO4.


