SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL

VOLUME 12 NUMBER 1
230 PARK AVENUE -

MARCH 1958
NEW YORK 17, N.Y.

 

 

TRAINING FOR RESEARCH ON ORGANIZATIONS:
A REPORT ON THE SUMMER INSTITUTE, 1957

SINCE the objective of the summer research training in-
stitute on organization theory and research was training
in research skills, my report on it, like most reports on
educational activities, will be more specific in describing
what we did than in measuring what we accomplished.
The institute brought together for a period of six weeks
some eighteen social scientists who have been active in
the study of human behavior in organizations, and pro-
vided them an opportunity to explore together a wide
range of methods that have been employed, at one time
or another, in that study.

WHAT IS ORGANIZATION THEORY
AND RESEARCH?

The term “organization” is sometimes used extremely
broadly—to encompass the whole area of the behavior
of organisms, or even of complex systems that are not
organisms. The institute was given a much sharper focus
than this. In selecting participants and planning the
program, we defined the relevant area as the study of
the behavior of human beings living in a formally
organized setting—in business, government, or a univer-
sity. The institute was to be concerned with funda-
mental research, and the participants would be in-

* The author is Professor of Administration and Associate Dean in
the Graduate School of Industrial Administration, Carnegie Institute of
Technology. He served as director of the summer research training
institute on organization theory and research, held at the Graduate
School of Industrial Administration from June 17 to July 26, 1957,
under the sponsorship of the Council's Committee on Research Train-
ing. Mr. Simon presented this report informally at the annual meeting
of the board of directors of the Council, September 1957.

/

by Herbert A. Simon *

terested in the relations between the behavior of humans
in an organizational setting and their behavior as de-
scribed in general sociological and psychological theory.

Even within these boundaries, organization theory is
an extremely broad topic, and human behavior in organ-
izations has been studied from the most diverse stand-
points. If the institute were not to be diffuse and dis-
organized, we needed an appropriate blend of parochial-
ism and eclecticism in the selection of topics. We secured
this blend by depending on local faculty members in the
Graduate School of Industrial Administration (primarily
James G. March, Allen Newell, and myself) for the
parochialism, and on visitors from other institutions
(including Robert F. Bales of the Department of Social
Relations at Harvard University, Robert L.. Chapman
of the Systems Research Laboratory in the RAND Cor-
poration, and Donald C. Pelz of the Institute of Social
Research at the University of Michigan) for the broader
view.

The predominant emphasis in organizational research
during the past decade has been on (a) motivation and
affect—what induces people to work, and how they feel
about organizational life—and (b) relations in the pri-
mary group—face-to-face groups and first-line super-
visory relations. These emphases were “represented” by
Messrs. Bales and Pelz. In contrast, our work at Carnegie
Institute of Technology (and, to a considerable extent,
the work at RAND Corporation with which Chapman
and Newell have been associated) has emphasized COg-
nitive aspects of human behavior and problems arising
out of the structure of large organizations. Thus, the
staff members reflected a considerable range of research

 

1


interests over the affective and cognitive aspects of
human behavior in organizations, with perhaps an
“overemphasis” (in terms of the current distribution of
research effort) on the cognitive side. : :

Method has been as diverse as substance 1n organiza-
tion theory. Organizations have been studied in the field
by interview, by observation, and occasionally by con-
trolled experiments. Organization-like groups have
been “grown” in the laboratory and subjected to obser
vation and experimentation. Quite recently, individual
and organizational behaviors have been simulated with
electronic computers. Direct experience with all these
methods was represented in the staff and participants in
the institute; the members of the staff are generally
identified with quantitative approaches, laboratory €x-
periments, and computer simulation.

PARTICIPANTS

In a research training institute, the line between
“staff” and “participants” is, and should be, tenuous.
The participants were all experienced in research on
organizational or other social behavior. A roster will
give some impression of the range of interests: Warren
Bennis, John Lanzetta, and Harold Leavitt in psy-
chology; Robert Hamblin, Norman Kaplan, John Pock,
and Charles Warriner in sociology; John Harsanyi,
mathematical economics; Stanley Hollander, marketing
administration; Edith Lentz, hospital administration;
Solomon Levine, labor economics; and Daniel Shim-
shoni, military administration. Like all melting pots,
this one provided in its diversity both opportunity and
complexity. Sociological accents could sometimes be
distinguished from psychological ones; field research
workers wondered at the strange customs of the small-
group laboratory, and vice versa; and from time to time
the initiates in the mysteries of mathematics performed
their sacred rites to the wonderment and (I hope) en-
tertainment of the others.

Since the cultural diversity was blended with tolerance
and maturity, ethnocentrism did not too much impede
mutual learning. There were times, to be sure, when
members of the institute sought solace and support in
the company of fellows from a particular subculture;
and some polarization into a qualitative, descriptive,
field research approach and a quantitative, model-
building, laboratory approach was discernible. However,
communication across these boundaries did not break
down.

As theorists of organizational behavior, the members
of the institute were aware of the status problems in
their own group, and interested in the way in which
the relation between staff and other participants would

 

 

develop. We did not yield to the temptation to turn the
institute into a “Bethel” directing its attention inward
to its own organization. Nevertheless we were conscious
that the relation between staff and participants would
have to be worked out, and that it would have to lie
somewhere on the continuum between a teacher-student
relation, on the one hand, and that of colleagues, on the
other. The staff, in planning the institute, had hoped
for the latter and were (perhaps naively) surprised at
the number of organizational forces—particularly those
arising from the need for procedural leadership—that
pushed the relation in the former direction. For one
thing, the “parochialism” referred to above gave the
local staff enough feeling of mission to make an im-
partial chairmanship role difficult for them. In the first
few weeks a relation developed in which most members
felt comfortable, but in which the staff could hardly
claim to be nondirective—and was even less so in mat-
ters of substance than in matters of procedure. The
main dysfunction to which this gave rise was that par-
ticipants who were interested in descriptive field studies
and qualitative approaches sometimes felt, with justice,
that they were outvoted.

PROGRAM

In planning the institute, the staff had tried to be
realistic about what could be accomplished in six weeks.
We were skeptical of the value of discussions of
methodology abstracted from concrete research situa-
tions. Consequently, we tried to organize the first four
weeks of the program around the analysis of some actual
studies of organizations, inasmuch as participants in
those studies were present. With this basis, various sub-
groups of participants, we thought, might devote their
main effort during the last two or three weeks either to
analyzing and reworking data from the studies that had
been examined or to formulating specific research un-
dertakings of their own. In selecting the staff for the
institute, we sought persons who could provide the
group with specific examples of several research ap-
proaches to the study of organizations: experimental
simulation of sizable organizations, in the case of Chap-
man; laboratory study of small groups, in the case of
Bales; survey methods, in that of Pelz; and computer
simulation and intensive field studies, in the case of the
Carnegie group.

Our expectations, in constructing the program in this
way, were only partly realized. We were successful in
avoiding any great amount of abstract, methodological
debate, and in securing tolerance in our discussions for
great diversity of method. We were less successful in
persuading the members to devote major effort to €X


amining data from the specific research studies that
were discussed—as distinguished from discussing these
studies in a general way for the substantive and metho-
dological lessons they might teach. In only one or two
instances did working relations among a pair or triplet
of members mature to the point where they plunged
into a cooperative research undertaking before the end
of the institute.

One reason why the institute was engaged less in
doing research and more in discussing it than we had
expected derived from the diversity of the group.
Every member wanted a broader picture of the area of
organizational research, and most of them thought that
the brief period of the institute was better spent in ob-
taining a survey of things they did not know about, than
in delving intensively into things with which they al-
ready had considerable familiarity. As a result, sub-
groups that were established for the study of particular
topics tended to turn themselves into committees of
the whole, and most members spent most of their days
in discussions and lectures.

Typically, four one and one-half hour seminars were
scheduled each day and were attended, on the average,
by three quarters of the group. During the first week
these seminars were devoted largely to discussion of a
manuscript, a ‘‘propositional inventory” of organiza-
tion theory and an analysis of the existing literature,
which had recently been completed by March and
Simon. This discussion proved to be exceedingly useful
in providing a common definition of the area of the
group's interest, and some common vocabulary for com-
municating about it—including a dictionary of terms
that appear to be peculiar to the Carnegie Institute of
Technology dialect.

In subsequent weeks subgroups with varying lengths
of life took responsibility for organizing series of ses-
sions around broad topics. In one week, for example,
one subgroup discussed conflict phenomena, including
game theory and bargaining; another, the study of in-
fluence; a third, communication processes in laboratory
situations; a fourth, the design of field studies; a
fifth, study of the administration of research; a sixth
worked on the simulation of human problem-solving
behavior with computers; a seventh analyzed data from

the RAND Systems Research Laboratory; and an eighth
was devoted to talks on mathematical models of organi-
zational behavior. If this bill of fare seems dizzying in
its variety, it seemed so, too, to the participants. They
never succeeded, however, in curbing their own curiosi-
ties to the point where they were willing to omit any
major topics from the agenda.

As may be inferred from the above list, the group
sessions ranged from discussions on the organization
theory manuscript, the research projects introduced by
the visiting staff, and research that had been done by
participants; through lectures, principally in the sessions
on mathematical models; to work sessions in which the
group attempted to write a computer program to simu-
late a small-group discussion, planned research on
creativity in industrial research, and combined data
from two independent studies in a joint manuscript.

ASSESSMENT

Since the institute undertook to produce no group
product, I can report here neither a set of “findings”
nor a set of “recommendations.” Like good social
scientists, we ended the institute with a session devoted
to evaluation, and the participants filled out question-
naires. Most of my observations here are based on the
information obtained in these ways—not too much
filtered, I hope, by my own biases or by the natural
courtesy of the participants in bidding their hosts
goodbye.

If subjective feelings are admissible evidence, the in-
stitute proved for most participants both enjoyable and
profitable. They reported that its main impact had been
in giving them a wide survey of research on organization
theory, and also an intensive look at some part of that
work, in particular, laboratory experimentation and
computer simulation of organizational behavior. They
reported some frustration at the fact that the institute
never reached the point of actually doing research, and
expressed strong resolutions that they were going to ap-
ply in their own work some of the concepts and methods
to which they had been exposed. The real assessment,
of course, belongs to the future when these applications
will have been made.


AN APPRAISAL OF THE SUMMER RESEARCH TRAINING
INSTITUTE ON MONETARY AND CREDIT POLICY, 1957

THE summer research training institute on monetary
and credit policy was organized around a series of
seminars led by economists and members of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System responsible
for the formation of monetary and credit policy. The
afternoons were left free for individual and group proj-
ects. William Martin, Jr. and C. Canby Balderston, re-
spectively Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board,
presented seminars dealing with the way its staff con-
tributes to the making of policy decisions. Several staff
members of the Board, notably Woodlief Thomas, Win-
field Riefler, and Arthur Marget, led seminars on aspects
of their work. Robert Roosa of the New York Bank and
George Mitchell of the Chicago Bank presented papers.
We were fortunate, also, to have Paul McCracken of
the Council of Economic Advisers to take responsibility
for a seminar.

We had originally planned to devote the afternoons
to work on a series of group projects. However, the
participants indicated a strong preference for individual
research. As a compromise we decided to use the first
two weeks for group projects and the last four weeks
for individual research projects.

During the first two weeks the sixteen participants
were divided into three groups, each of which was re-
sponsible for estimating the reserve needs for the forth-
coming week and for the three-month period ending
November 1. At the end of the two weeks each group
reported its findings and defended them before the at-
tacks of the other groups.

During the following four weeks each of the partici-
pants worked on a project of his own choosing. Gen-
erally, we encouraged the participants to choose topics
on which work could be carried out more easily at the
office of the Board than at their various universities.
We helped the participants to get in touch with the ex-
perts on the staff of the Board who could best help
them. At the end of the six weeks, the following papers
had been prepared and were presented to the institute:

Alice Bourneuf: Possible Summary of Flow-of-Funds
Data in Four Tables

*® The author is Professor of Economics at Purdue University and
served as director of the summer research training institute on monetary
and credit policy, held in Washington, D. C., from June 24 to August
2, 1957, under the joint sponsorship of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System and the Council's Committee on Research
Training.

by E. T. Weiler *

Claus Ruser: The Elasticity of Commercial Bank
Demand for Federal Obligations, 1945-56

David Chambers: Analysis of Federal Reserve Board
Sample of 300 Large Corporations

Emmett Rice: Significance of Shifts in Sector
Liquidity

Jacob Cohen: The Concept and Measurement of
Sector Contribution

Raymond McEvoy: Bank Loans to Small Business un-
der Tight Money, 1955-56

Joseph Aschheim: The Bankers’ Program of Reserve
Reduction and Reform

Charles A. Matthews: Monetary Policy and Com-
mercial Bank Assets

Assar Lindbeck: Analyzing Economic Effects of Fiscal
Policy—with Special Regard to Effects on the Credit
Market

George Horwich: Effective Reserves and Bank In-
vestment Policy during the Late 1930's

H. Jerome Cranmer: Behavior of New York Central
Reserve City Deposits, 1919-56

Deane Carson: Treasury Open Market Operations

Norman Leonard: Some Effects of Recent Monetary
Policy on State and Local Finance

Bogdan Mieczkowski: The Role of Recent Monetary
Developments in Italy

One of these papers, modified and revised in the light
of criticism by other participants, was presented at the
American Economic Association Annual Meeting in
December 1957. Two other papers are being revised
and will be submitted for publication in journals.

APPRAISAL FROM THE PARTICIPANTS’
POINT OF VIEW

From the participants’ point of view the summer re-
search training institute on credit. and monetary policy
appears to have been an unqualified success. On return-
ing home most of the participants took time to write
letters indicating the strengths and weaknesses of the
summer program. They were uniformly pleased: At no
other institution could they have taken seminars with
so large and distinguished a staff of economists interested
in central banking and monetary theory; at no other
place could they have worked with so many practicing
economists; and as a by-product they learned how
cconomists can serve in a staff capacity.


FROM THE POINT OF VIEW
OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS

It is more difficult to appraise the research training
institute from the point of view of the Board of Gover-
nors. Certainly, it is important to the Board that many
of the young economists present at the institute will be-
come contributing scholars in the field of monetary
theory and policy and will have firsthand information
and familiarity with its resources and procedures.

If some similar type of research training institute were
to be repeated, there are a number of lessons to be
learned from last summer's experience. First, it seems
to me that it would be better to accept somewhat fewer
persons so as to have a more homogeneous group of out-
standing intellectual promise. Second, an effort should
be made to bring the participants and members of the
Board's staff closer together. If there were fewer par-
ticipants, desks might be provided for each of them in
the various offices where they would be seeking ma-
terial. At the same time the Board's staff should be en-
couraged to attend the seminars and participate in the
discussion. (Last summer because of lack of space and
because we were not sure how the participants would
react, we discouraged attendance by staff members.)
Possibly, each of the participants might be assigned a
“major professor” from the staff, who could supervise
the preparation of the research paper, and help to give
the participant access to data in other agencies as well
as in the offices of the Board.

 

While the group project on “reserve needs” was use-
ful as a means of forcing the participants to learn more
about the institutional complications of effecting mone-.
tary policies, I would shorten the time devoted to this
project and lengthen the time spent on individual re-
search projects under the direction of staff members.

The participants did not have enough time toward
the end of the six-week period to present their papers
and receive the criticism of their fellow participants.
To correct this, I would encourage the participants to
prepare their papers early and to circulate them for
criticism. Possibly, each of the staff members could list
a number of projects that he would like participants to
undertake, and this would tend to prevent delay in
choosing a research project.

Finally, to encourage discussion in the seminars, each
of the staff members should be encouraged to prepare
an abstract of his presentation for distribution in ad-
vance of the seminar. Thus more time could be spent in
discussion of the issues raised by the presentation.

While in retrospect we can see ways to improve the
summer research training institute on monetary and
credit policy, there is no doubt that the students thought
there was much to be gained, as one student said, in
“bringing students of Mohammedanism to Mecca.” The
students not only had opportunity to work with data
not available elsewhere, but also to work with prac-
ticing economists who were deeply involved in apprais-
ing developments in the economy and recommending
appropriate action.

RESEARCH ON PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT IN YOUTH:
PROGRAM OF A NEW COUNCIL COMMITTEE

IN RESPONSE to the lively interest of a small but growing
number of social scientists in problems of higher edu-
cation, the Social Science Research Council has ap-
pointed a new Committee on Personality Development
in Youth to encourage and aid research on social and
cultural influences on personality in the late adolescent
years, with particular reference to the impact that college
has on students. The members of the committee are
Ralph W. Tyler, Director, Center for Advanced Study
in the Behavioral Sciences (chairman); Dana L. Farns-
worth, Director, University Health Services, Harvard
University; T. R. McConnell, Professor of Education
and Director of Research Project in Higher Education,
University of California, Berkeley; Theodore M. New-
comb, Professor of Psychology and Sociology, Univer-

sity of Michigan; C. Robert Pace, Chairman, Depart-
ment of Psychology, Syracuse University; Nevitt Sanford,
Professor of Psychology, University of California,
Berkeley, and Coordinator, Mary Conover Mellon
Foundation, Vassar College; and Robin M. Williams,
Jr., Professor of Sociology, Cornell University. A grant
of $150,000 for support of the committee's program
during the next three years was made to the Council
by the Ford Foundation in December 1957.

In June 1956 an exploratory conference was held
under the auspices of the Council for discussion of the
current status and needs of social science research on
problems of higher education. Many aspects of the broad
area were touched upon and two foci of special interest
emerged. One concerned student centered research; the


other, institution centered research. There was general
agreement that attention might profitably be turned to
consideration of student motivation, values, and atti-
tudes. The conference also set a high priority on the
study of the college as an institution. The paucity of
such studies was attributed to practical difficulties in
carrying them out and to the lack of experienced re-
search workers. Relatively few social scientists are
skilled in institutional analysis and these have not in-
terested themselves in educational settings.

A second conference was held in October 1957 to ex-
plore further the areas of interest that had emerged. As
participants in this conference described their research
and their plans, it became apparent that study of student
personality and study of institutional culture are most
effective in combination. This is the familiar “person-
ality and culture” analysis applied to the situation of
the student in college.

The conference recommended that a continuing com-

mittee of the Council be appointed. The first meeting of
the new committee was held on December 20-21. After
a day’s discussion of current research the committee
turned to consideration of possible activities that would
contribute to the development and aid of research. In-
terest was expressed in planning and supporting con-
ferences and publications that would facilitate the ex-
change of information among research workers and
enable them to take advantage of unpublished methods
and preliminary results. The long-range objectives of
the committee include the promotion of comparable
studies in different institutions, the development of
useful measures of student characteristics and of the
social culture that influences them, and the building of
a theory concerning the interaction of kinds of students
and kinds of cultures in personality development. The
committee’s plans will be developed further at a meet-
ing on March 25-26, at the Center for Advanced Study
in the Behavioral Sciences.

COMMITTEE BRIEFS

AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS

R. G. Bressler, Jr. (chairman), Varden Fuller (secretary),
George K. Brinegar, Willard W. Cochrane, Earl O. Heady,
H. B. James, D. Gale Johnson, Glenn L. Johnson, Kenneth
H. Parsons, Herman M. Southworth.

At its meeting in Chicago on January 23-24, the commit-
tee considered a memorandum by George K. Brinegar which
proposed the investigation of ways in which research in
agricultural economics might be made more cumulative. A
subcommittee, consisting of Mr. Brinegar (chairman), Her-
man M. Southworth, and Kenneth L. Bachman of the Agri-
cultural Research Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
was appointed to study the problems presented by this pro-
posal and to recommend appropriate action.

ECONOMIC GROWTH

Simon Kuznets (chairman), Richard Hartshorne, Melville
J. Herskovits, Edgar M. Hoover, Bert F. Hoselitz, Wilbert
E. Moore, Joseph J. Spengler.

A conference on commitment of the industrial labor force
in newly developing areas is to be held in Chicago on March
28-30, under the auspices of the committee. The conference,
planned by a subcommittee consisting of Messrs. Moore
(chairman), Herskovits, and Hoselitz, is concerned with
evaluation of the findings of several studies—carried out in
countries of Africa, Asia, and Latin America—of the adjust-
ments involved in transfers of labor from agriculture to
industry or to larger and more mechanized agricultural
units, and in recruiting a relatively stable work force. As a
basis for conference discussion, the subcommittee arranged

for the preparation and advance distribution of the fol-
lowing papers: “Work Technology and Organization in
Nonindustrial Societies,” by Stanley H. Udy, Department
of Sociology, Yale University; “Adaptation of Personnel
Policies to Local Institutions,” by Cyril S. Belshaw, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, University of British Columbia;
“Alternative Forms of Industrial Management in Economic
Transition,” by Peter B. Hammond, Administrative Science
Center, University of Pittsburgh; “Development of a Labor
Market,” by Peter Gregory, Department of Economics, Yale
University; “Changing Demand and Consumption,” by
Richard H. Holton, School of Business Administration, Uni-
versity of California; “Labor Mobility and Competing Status
Systems,” by Lloyd A. Fallers, Department of Anthro-
pology, University of California, and Walter Elkan, East
African Institute; “Education, Skills, and Industrial Tradi-
tions,” by Milton Singer, Department of Anthropology, Uni-
versity of Chicago; “Industrial Conflict and the Role of
Unions,” by William H. Knowles, Institute of Industrial
Relations, University of California; “Ideological Shifts in
Unions,” by Morris D. Morris, Department of Economics,
University of Washington; “Kinship and Voluntary Asso-
ciations,” by Manning Nash, Department of Anthropology,
University of Washington; and “Political Orientations,” by
David E. Apter, Department of Political Science, Univer-
sity of Chicago. The implications of the findings of these
studies for certain broader topics are being dealt with in the
following papers: “The Organization of Work,” by Mr.
Herskovits; “Involvement in the Market Matrix,” by Mr.
Hoselitz; “Development of New Status Systems,” by Melvin


SE Tmo ee ih GL =~

M. Tumin, Department of Economics and Sociology, Prince-
ton University; “New Forms of Social Affiliations,” by Clark
Kerr, Chancellor, University of California, Berkeley; and
“General Hypotheses on Labor Commitment,” by Arnold
S. Feldman, Department of Sociology, University of Dela-
ware, and Mr. Moore.

HISTORICAL STATISTICS
(Advisory to the Bureau of the Census)

G. Heberton Evans, Jr. (chairman), Otis Dudley Duncan,
Solomon Fabricant, Maurice I. Gershenson, Richard M.
Scammon, Willard L. Thorp, Harold F. Williamson; Sec-
retary, Herman P. Miller.

Excellent progress has been made on the assembly of ma-
terials for a new and expanded edition of the basic source
book, Historical Statistics of the United States, which is
being prepared for publication by the Bureau of the Census.
Table outlines for each of the 43 sections of the forthcoming
volume have been reviewed by the advisory committee. Each
of these table outlines was prepared by an expert in the
field, and in most cases each was reviewed by a specialist
who was retained by the advisory committee as a review
consultant. Over 75 outstanding scholars have been en-
gaged as working or review consultants. On the basis of the
materials so far submitted, it is estimated that the size of
the volume will be about 600 pages (including 200 pages of
text), twice the size of the first edition. Publication of the
volume is planned for early 1959.

All the subjects covered in the first edition will be in-
cluded and expanded in the new edition. The following are
some of the important subjects that have been added: con-
sumer expenditure patterns, social security, education,
crime, recreation, religion, climate, domestic trade and
services, corporate assets and liabilities, business population,
insurance, and armed forces. The volume will also contain
a special chapter on colonial statistics.

Arrangements have been made by the advisory committee
for the preparation of bibliographic and evaluative essays
on the statistics in several fields. The essays now in process
relate to international migration, internal migration, con-
sumer expenditure patterns, recreation, religion, minerals,
domestic trade and services, patents, and colonial statistics.

G. H. E.

LINGUISTICS AND PSYCHOLOGY

James J. Jenkins (chairman), John B. Carroll, Joseph H.
Greenberg, Alvin M. Liberman, Floyd G. Lounsbury,
Charles E. Osgood, Thomas A. Sebeok, Rulon S. Wells;
staff, Joseph B. Casagrande.

The committee has completed plans for a seminar con-
cerned with research on problems of aphasic speech, to be
held in the summer of 1958 at the Boston Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital, a principal center for the study and
treatment of aphasia. Support for the seminar has been

granted to the Council by the National Institute of Mental
Health. Under the chairmanship of Charles E. Osgood, the
seminar will bring together for six weeks an interdisci-
plinary group of specialists—psychologists, neurologists,
and linguists—in an effort to integrate their various ap-
proaches to the study of aphasia and to develop promising
lines of new research. It is hoped that the work of the
seminar will contribute to understanding of normal lan-
guage behavior as well as to knowledge of aphasic disorders
and of their differential diagnosis and treatment.

In addition to Messrs. Osgood and Jenkins, senior partici-
pants in the seminar will include Norman J. Geschwind,
Research Associate, Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology; Harold Goodglass, Director of Re-
search, Clinical Psychology Section, and Fred A. Quadfasel,
Chief, Neurology Section, Boston Veterans Administration
Hospital; Wallace E. Lambert, Assistant Professor of Psy-
chology, McGill University; David L. Olmsted, Assistant
Professor of Anthropology, University of California,
Davis; Hildred Schuell, Director, Aphasia Division, Min-
neapolis Veterans Administration Hospital; Hans-Lukas
Teuber, Associate Professor (Experimental Psychology),
Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, New York Uni-
versity College of Medicine; Uriel Weinrich, Associate Pro-
fessor of Linguistics, Columbia University. Jean Berko,
Ph.D. candidate in psychology and linguistics, Harvard
University, and James McCarthy, Ph.D. candidate in psy-
chology, University of Illinois, will participate in the semi-
nar as advanced graduate student members. Several other
persons actively engaged in research on aphasia and closely
related problems will be invited to visit the seminar as
consultants for short periods.

Plans have also been made by the committee to hold
the fifth in its series of work conferences on various issues
in the broad field of psycholinguistics. On April 17-19 a
group of psychologists, linguists, and literary critics will
meet at Indiana University in a conference on research on
“individual style,” organized by Thomas A. Sebeok. The
papers to be discussed at the conference will be circulated
in advance. They are being prepared by Messrs. Sebeok,
Carroll, Jenkins, Osgood, and Wells of the committee and
by the following other participants: Monroe Beardsley of
Swarthmore College; Roger Brown and Albert Gilman
of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Seymour B. Chat-
man of the University of Pennsylvania; Richard M. Dorson,
Sol Saporta, Edward Stankiewicz, C. F. Voegelin, and V. J.
Zeps of Indiana University (the latter with Mr. Sebeok);
Fred H. Higginson of Kansas State College; John Hollander
of Connecticut College; Benjamin Hrushovski of Hebrew
University; Dell Hymes of Harvard University; John
Lotz of Columbia University; I. A. Richards of Har-
vard University; and W. K. Wimsatt of Yale University. In
a final session Roman Jakobson and George A. Miller of
Harvard University and René Wellek of Yale University
will summarize the results of the conference from the
points of view of linguistics, psychology, and literary
criticism, respectively.


NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY RESEARCH

William T. R. Fox (chairman), Herbert Goldhamer,
Henry A. Kissinger, Richard W. Leopold, G. A. Lincoln,
John W. Masland, Arthur Smithies, Harold Stein; staff,
Bryce Wood.

As one way of encouraging research and furthering com-
munication among scholars concerned with its field, the
committee has planned a summer seminar, to be held at
Dartmouth College in July and August 1958, under the
chairmanship of Laurence I. Radway, Associate Professor
of Government at Dartmouth. The other participants will
include Lewis J. Edinger, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, Michigan State University; Martin R. R. Goldman,
Educational Specialist, Headquarters Air Force R.O.T.C,,
Air University; Fred Greene, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, Williams College; Abbott C. Greenleaf, Depart-

ment of Social Sciences, U. S. Military Academy; Paul Y.
Hammond, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Yale
University; Samuel P. Huntington, Assistant Professor of
Government, Harvard University; William W. Kaufmann,
RAND Corporation; Louis Morton, Chief, Pacific Section,
and Deputy Chief Historian, Department of the Army;
Robert E. Osgood, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
University of Chicago; and Glenn H. Snyder, Lecturer and
Research Associate in Public Law and Government,
Columbia University.

An exploratory discussion of possibilities for advancing
economic research on national security was held at the
initiative of the committee in New York on January 31 —
February 1, under the chairmanship of Klaus Knorr, Pro-
fessor of Public and International Affairs, Princeton
University.

PERSONNEL

DIRECTORS OF THE COUNCIL

The following persons have been designated by the seven
national social science organizations associated with the
Council to serve as directors of the Council for the three-
year term 1958-60:

Fred Eggan, University of Chicago, by the American
Anthropological Association

R. A. Gordon, University of California, by the American
Economic Association

Louis Gottschalk, University of Chicago, by the Ameri-
can Historical Association

Earl Latham, Amherst College, by the American Political
Science Association

Wayne H. Holtzman, University of Texas, by the Ameri-
can Psychological Association

Conrad Taeuber, Bureau of the Census, by the American
Sociological Society

Philip J. McCarthy, Cornell University, by the American
Statistical Association

The credentials of the new members are scheduled for ac-
ceptance by the board of directors of the Council at its
spring meeting in New York on March 22-23, 1958.

SENIOR AWARDS FOR RESEARCH
ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

The Committee on Grants for Research on Governmental
Affairs—William Anderson, Robert E. Cushman, Dean E.
McHenry, Elmer B. Staats, and Benjamin F. Wright—at its
meeting on November 19, 1957, made the first awards under
the new five-year program announced in Items, June 1957.
Grants providing freedom for self-directed research and
writing on aspects of governmental affairs of interest to the

individual scholar have been accepted by the following for
the academic year 1958-59:

Rowland Egger, Chairman, Woodrow Wilson Depart-
ment of Foreign Affairs, University of Virginia, for
research on the changing institutional role of the
Presidency.

Charles McKinley, Professor of Political Science, Reed
College, for research on public administration of land
and water resources.

Emmette S. Redford, Professor of Government, University
of Texas, for research on the decision-making process
as reflected in regulation of economic enterprise.

Clarence E. Ridley, formerly Executive Director, Interna-
tional City Managers’ Association, for research on the
limitations and responsibilities of city managers in
policy determination.

GRANTS FOR RESEARCH ON THE
NEAR AND MIDDLE EAST

The Committee on the Near and Middle East—T. Cuyler
Young (chairman), Hamilton A. R. Gibb, J. C. Hurewitz,
Majid Khadduri, William D. Schorger, Wilfred C. Smith—
at its meeting on December 13, 1957, made the first awards
under the new three-year program of grants for social science
research in its field to the following 6 persons:

Willard A. Beling, Ph.D. in Near Eastern Studies,
Princeton University, and Industrial Relations Re-
search Supervisor, Arabian American Oil Company, for
research in several Near Eastern countries on the de-

velopment and nature of the labor movement in the
Arab Near East.

Wayne Dennis, Professor of Psychology, Brooklyn College,
for research in Lebanon, Egypt, Iraq, and Iran on Near
Eastern children’s views of the world.

Sydney N. Fisher, Professor of History, Ohio State Uni-
versity, for research in Turkey on the place and de-
velopment of democracy in Turkey since 1923.


Edwin T. Prothro, Professor of Psychology, American
University of Beirut, and Visiting Lecturer (1957-58),
University of Michigan, for research in Lebanon on
child-rearing practices and motivational patterns in a
Christian village and in a Moslem village.

Louise E. Sweet, Visiting Assistant Professor of Anthro-
pology, University of Kansas, for ethnographic study in
Iraq of an Arab village.

Panayiotis A. Vatikiotis, Assistant Professor of Govern-
ment, Indiana University, for research in several Middle
Eastern countries on the role of an occupational group
in the political process.

GRANTS FOR FIELD STUDIES
OF POLITICAL GROUPS IN FOREIGN AREAS

The Committee on Comparative Politics—Gabriel A.
Almond (chairman), Taylor Cole, James S. Coleman, Roy
C. Macridis, Sigmund Neumann, Guy J. Pauker, Lucian W.
Pye, Walter R. Sharp—at its meeting on February 21-22
awarded 5 grants for field studies of political groups in
foreign areas and named one alternate:

Samuel H. Beer, Professor of Government, Harvard Uni-
versity, for research in Great Britain on the roles of
political parties and interest groups in policy making
in that country since 1945.

Ralph Braibanti, Associate Professor of Political Science,
Duke University, for research in Pakistan on the
bureaucracy of that country.

F. C. Engelmann, Associate Professor of Political Science,
Alfred University, for research on the Austrian political
system (alternate).

Carl H. Landé, Ph.D. candidate in government, Harvard
University, postdoctoral award for research in the
Philippines on political groups.

Gordon K. Lewis, Associate Professor of Social Sciences,
University of Puerto Rico, for research in the British
West Indies on the present and emergent political
groups in the area.

Stanley Spector, Assistant Professor of Far Eastern Affairs,
Washington University, for research in Malaya and
Singapore on the role of intellectuals in the formation
and execution of policies, and in the formation of
opinion in a Southeast Asian urban community.

GRANTS FOR RESEARCH ON AMERICAN
GOVERNMENTAL PROCESSES

The Committee on Political Behavior—David B. Truman
(chairman), Angus Campbell, Robert A. Dahl, Oliver
Garceau, Alexander Heard, V. O. Key, Jr., Avery Leiserson,
Dayton D. McKean—at its meeting on November 8-9, 1957
awarded one new grant for research on American govern-
mental processes:

John A. Schnittker, Assistant Professor of Agricultural
Economics, Kansas State College, for research on the
allocation of authority and responsibility in the ad-
ministration of public agricultural programs.

Further awards are to be made by the committee at a meet-
ing on March 1.

INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE TRAVEL GRANTS

Under the Council's program of international conference
travel grants, awards have been made to facilitate attend-

ance at four additional international meetings of social
scientists:

International Association of Applied Psychology

Awards for attendance at the Congress of this Associa-
tion to be held in Rome on April 9-14, 1958, have been
made by a subcommittee—Lee J. Cronbach (chairman),
George A. Kelly, and S. Rains Wallace—of the Committee
on International Conference Travel Grants, of which Mr.
Cronbach is a member. The 8 recipients of awards are:

Dorothy C. Adkins, Professor of Psychology, University
of North Carolina

Edwin A. Fleishman, Associate Professor of Industrial
Relations and of Psychology, Yale University

Murray Glanzer, Associate Program Director, American
Institute for Research, Pittsburgh

C. H. Lawshe, Professor of Psychology, Purdue Univer-
sity

Floyd C. Mann, Program Director, Survey Research
Center, Institute for Social Research, and Assistant Pro-
fessor of Psychology, University of Michigan

David G. Ryans, Professor of Educational Psychology,
University of California, Los Angeles

Donald W. Taylor, Professor of Personnel Administra-
tion and of Psychology, Yale University

Albert S. Thompson, Professor, Department of Psycho-
logical Foundations and Services, Teachers College,
Columbia University

International Conference of Agricultural Economists

Travel grants for this conference, to be held in Mysore,
India on August 24 — September 4, 1958, have been awarded
by the following subcommittee: William O. Jones (chair-
man), George E. Brandow, and Harold G. Halcrow. The
6 recipients are:

Chester B. Baker, Associate Professor of Farm Manage-
ment, University of Illinois

Karl Brandt, Professor of Agricultural Economics, Stan-
ford University

D. Gale Johnson, Professor of Economics, University of
Chicago

George L. Mehren, Professor of Agricultural Economics,
University of California, Berkeley

Frederick A. Williams, Dean of the Graduate School,
Agricultural and Technical College of North Carolina

Lawrence Witt, Professor of Agricultural Economics,
Michigan State University

International Congress of Americanists

The Congress will be held in San José, Costa Rica, on
July 20-27, 1958. Travel grants have been awarded by a
subcommittee consisting of Ralph L. Beals (chairman, and
member of the Committee on International Conference

9


Travel Grants), Howard F. Cline, and John L. Gillin. The
11 recipients are:

Melville ]. Herskovits, Professor of Anthropology,
Northwestern University

Oscar Lewis, Professor of Anthropology, University of
Illinois

James E. McKeown, Professor of Sociology, De Paul Uni-
versity, Chicago

Donald Robertson, Assistant Professor of Art History,
Tulane University

Irving Rouse, Professor of Anthropology, Yale Univer-
sity

Omer C. Stewart, Professor of Anthropology, University
of Colorado

William Duncan Strong, Professor of American Arche-
ology, Columbia University

Sol Tax, Professor of Anthropology, University of
Chicago

Arthur J. Vidich, Assistant Professor of Anthropology,
University of Connecticut

Charles Wagley, Professor of Anthropology, Columbia
University

Richard B. Woodbury, Associate Professor of Anthro-
pology, Columbia University

International Statistical Institute

Travel grants for the meeting of the Institute to be held
in Brussels on September 3-8, 1958, have been awarded by
a subcommittee consisting of Mortimer Spiegelman (chair-
man of the Committee on International Conference Travel
Grants), Gertrude M. Cox, and Ralph J. Watkins. The 4
recipients of grants are:

Hendrik S. Houthakker, Professor of Economics, Stanford
University

Richard C. Kao, Research Associate, Engineering Re-
search Institute, University of Michigan

William G. Madow, Senior Research Mathematical
Statistician, Stanford Research Institute, and Consult-
ing Professor of Statistics, Stanford University

William F. Ogburn, Professor of Sociology, Florida State
University

SUMMER RESEARCH TRAINING INSTITUTES
ON ANALYSIS OF ELECTORAL BEHAVIOR
AND ON THE JUDICIAL PROCESS

Selection of applicants for admission to two research
training institutes to be conducted during the summer of
1958, under the auspices of the Committee on Research
Training, has been made by the following subcommittees:
for the Institute on Analysis of Electoral Behavior to be
held at the Survey Research Center, University of Michi-
gan, June 23 - August 15, Angus Campbell (chairman),
Samuel J. Eldersveld, and J. Austin Ranney; and for the

Institute on the Judicial Process to be held at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin, July 7 — August 22, William M. Beaney
(chairman), Carl A. Auerbach, and Robert J. Harris. The
following persons have been invited to participate in the
respective institutes:

Analysis of Electoral Behavior

Robert P. Boynton, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, State University of Iowa

David R. Derge, Assistant Professor of Government,
Indiana University

Herbert Garfinkel, Assistant Professor of Government,
Dartmouth College

Lester W. Milbrath, Instructor and Research Associate
in Political Science, Duke University

Herbert D. Rosenbaum, Instructor in Political Science,
Hofstra College

Lloyd I. Rudolph, Instructor in Government, Harvard
University

John H. Schaar, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
University of California, Berkeley

Kenneth N. Vines, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
Tulane University

Judicial Process

10

Henry J]. Abraham, Associate Professor of Political
Science, University of Pennsylvania

Harry V. Ball, Assistant Professor of Sociology, Pomona
College

Burton R. Fisher, Professor of Sociology, University of
Wisconsin

Houston I. Flournoy, Assistant Professor of Government,
Pomona College

Gilbert Geis, Assistant Professor of Sociology, Los Angeles
State College

Martin P. Golding, Instructor in Philosophy, Columbia
University

Milton Greenberg, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
Western Michigan University

Ned V. Joy, Associate Professor of Political Science, San
Diego State College

Samuel Krislov, Assistant Professor of Government, Uni-
versity of Oklahoma

Arnold Meadow, Associate Professor of Psychology, Uni-
versity of Buffalo

Chester A. Newland, Assistant Instructor in Political
Science, University of Kansas

Arthur R. Porter, Jr., Professor of Economics, Hanover
College, Indiana

John R. Schmidhauser, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, State University of Iowa

Marcus G. Singer, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin

Jerome H. Skolnick, Research Associate, Sociology and
Law, Yale Law School

S. Sidney Ulmer, Instructor in Political Science, Michigan
State University


SUMMER RESEARCH TRAINING INSTITUTE
ON SIMULATION OF COGNITIVE PROCESSES

Selection of applicants for admission to the research train-
ing institute to be held at the RAND Corporation, Santa
Monica, California in June-July 1958 (as announced in
Items, December 1957, page 56) has been made by the
Committee on Simulation of Cognitive Processes—Carl I.
Hovland, George A. Miller, and Herbert A. Simon. The
following persons have been invited to participate in the
institute:

Robert P. Abelson, Assistant Professor of Psychology,

Yale University

Lawrence T. Alexander, Head, Research Group, System
Development Corporation, Santa Monica

Richard C. Atkinson, Assistant Professor of Psychology,
University of California, Los Angeles

William F. Battig, Assistant Professor of Psychology, Uni-
versity of Virginia

Daniel E. Berlyne, Visiting Associate Professor of Psy-
chology, University of California, Berkeley

Joseph D. Birch, Assistant Professor of Psychology, Uni-
versity of Michigan

Jack Block, Associate Professor of Psychology, University
of California, Berkeley

James S. Coleman, Assistant Professor of Sociology, Uni-
versity of Chicago

Ward Edwards, Research Associate, Operations Research
Group, University of Michigan

Bert F. Green, Jr., Staff Member, Lincoln Laboratory,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Robert L. Hamblin, Study Director, Social Science Insti-
tute, Washington University

Lyle V. Jones, Associate Professor of Psychology, Univer-
sity of North Carolina

Edmund T. Klemmer, Staff Psychologist, International
Business Machines Corporation Research Center

Gilbert K. Krulee, Assistant Professor of Psychology, Case
Institute of Technology

Nissim Levy, Assistant Professor of Psychology, Brown
University

William N. McPhee, Research Associate, Bureau of Ap-
plied Social Research, Columbia University

Irwin Pollack, Research Psychologist, Operational Appli-

cations Laboratory, Bolling Air Force Base, Washing-
ton, D. C.

Theodore Schwartz, Research Fellow, Department of
Anthropology, American Museum of Natural History

Roger N. Shepard, Research Fellow, Psychological Labo-
ratories, Harvard University

Gerald H. Shure, Associate Social Scientist, System De-
velopment Corporation, Santa Monica

Donald W. Taylor, Professor of Personnel Administra-
tion and of Psychology, Yale University

APPOINTMENTS TO COUNCIL COMMITTEES

Richard M. Cyert of Carnegie Institute of Technology
has been appointed a member of the Committee on Busi-
ness Enterprise Research.

The Committee on Mathematical Training of Social
Scientists was reconstituted in January as the Committee on
Mathematics in Social Science Research, with the following
membership: William G. Madow, Stanford University
(chairman); Sanford M. Dornbusch, Harvard University;
Arnold C. Harberger, University of Chicago; John G.
Kemeny, Dartmouth College; James G. March, Carnegie
Institute of Technology; Philip J. McCarthy, Cornell Uni-
versity; George A. Miller, Harvard University; Anatol
Rapoport, University of Michigan.

PUBLICATIONS

NEW CENSUS MONOGRAPHS

These volumes, sponsored by the former Committee on
Census Monographs in cooperation with the Bureau of the
Census, are published by John Wiley & Sons, New York:

America’s Children, by Eleanor H. Bernert. February
1958. 199 pages. Cloth, $6.00.

The Changing Population of the United States, by
Conrad Taeuber and Irene B. Taeuber. January 1958.
368 pages. Cloth, $7.75.

Farm Housing, by Glenn H. Beyer and J. Hugh Rose.
November 1957. 205 pages. Cloth, $6.00.

Residential Finance, 1950, by Richard U. Ratcliff,
Daniel B. Rathbun, and Junia H. Honnold. October
1957. 190 pages. Cloth, $6.00.

SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL

230 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK 17, N. Y.

Incorporated in the State of Illinois, December 27, 1924, for the purpose of advancing research in the social sciences

Directors, 1958: GABRIEL A. ALMOND, TAYLOR COLE, HAROLD F. DORN, FrEpD EcGAN, ROBERT E. L. Faris, R. A. GORDON, Louis GOTTSCHALK,
PENDLETON HERRING, E. ApaMsoN HoOEBEL, WAYNE H. HortzMAN, LYLE H. LANIER, EARL LATHAM, PHILP J. MCCARTHY, DoucLAs MCGREGOR,
JouN PERRY MILLER, FREDERICK MosTELLER, FRANK C. NEWMAN, WiLLiam H. Niciorirs, DAvip M. POTTER, CARROLL L. SHARTLE, RICHARD H. SHRYOCK,
HERBERT A. SIMON, CONRAD TAEUBER, SCHUYLER C. WALLACE, RALPH J. WATKINS, GorboN R. WiLLEY, MALcom M. WiLLEY, RoBIN M. WIiL-

LiAMS, Jr., C. VANN WOODWARD, DoNALD YOUNG

Officers and Staff: PENDLETON HERRING, President; PAUL WEBBINK, Vice-President; ELBRIDGE SIBLEY, Executive Associate; DONALD G. MAR-
Quis; BRYCE Woop; ELEANOR C. IsBLL; JOSEPH B. CASAGRANDE; CATHERINE V. RONNAN, Financial Secretary

I EE


ANNOUNCEMENTS

SUMMER GRANTS FOR FIELD TRAINING
IN SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY, 1958

Grants for supervised field training in social anthro-
pology and ethnology in the summer of 1958 are offered
by the Social Science Research Council to students who
have completed at least one year of graduate work in these
subjects. Stipends ranging from $175 a month for unmar-
ried students to $300 a month for students with several de-
pendents will be awarded for terms of up to 3 months.
Allowances for the student’s own travel and field expenses
may be made. Available funds will permit about 5 awards
in 1958.

Applications for grants should be filed not later than
April 1, 1958, and it is anticipated that awards can be
announced about April 15. Applications must give assur-
ance that the student will accompany an experienced anthro-
pologist into the field and work under his guidance. It is
expected that the faculty supervisor will also offer guidance
in planning the field project and in the analysis of the data
and the preparation of a report on the summer's work. It is
anticipated that field work will be undertaken in most
cases in North or Central America or the Caribbean area,
but work in other areas will be permissible if the applicant
is able to provide from other sources for travel expenses in
excess of $300.

The complete application should include the following,
of which A, B, and C should be submitted in quadruplicate:

A. From the faculty supervisor: a letter nominating the
student, including a statement of arrangements for
the supervision of the student's work and an ap-
praisal of his abilities and promise as a research
worker;

B. From the student: a description of plans for the field
work, the time schedule, an estimated budget (in-
cluding information about the candidate’s marital
status and dependents); a brief curriculum vitae, and
a statement of progress toward the Ph.D. degree;

C. A letter of recommendation from another graduate
instructor familiar with the student’s qualifications;

D. Transcripts of both undergraduate and graduate aca-
demic records; or a list of all courses taken in anthro-
pology and related fields, giving the instructor and
grade obtained in each.

Applications and inquiries concerning the program should
be addressed to the Social Science Research Council, 230
Park Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.

TRAVEL GRANTS: INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCES ON SLAVIC AND
EAST EUROPEAN STUDIES

As a part of the program of the Joint Committee on
Slavic Studies, of the American Council of Learned So-
cieties and the Social Science Research Council, travel grants
are offered to scholars in the humanities and social sciences

for attendance at international conferences and congresses
of specialists in Slavic and East European studies. ‘These
awards are made possible by the grant from the Ford
Foundation reported in Items, September 1957, page 38,
and are administered by the Joint Committee's Subcom-
mittee on Grants. It is anticipated that 4 to 6 awards may
be made in each of the years 1958 and 1959 for travel to
conferences or congresses held outside North America.

The normal amount of each grant will be equivalent to
the lowest round-trip tourist class or excursion airplane fare
between the recipient's home and the place of meeting,
applicable to the actual period of the conference or congress.
No allowance will be made for living expenses.

Application forms, which will be supplied on request to
the Social Science Research Council, 230 Park Avenue,
New York 17, N. Y., must be filed not later than May lI,
1958, for meetings to be held in 1958. For meetings to be
held in 1959, a filing date for applications will be announced
in the autumn of 1958.

FULBRIGHT GRANTS FOR ADVANCED
RESEARCH AND UNIVERSITY LECTURING
IN ASIA, THE PACIFIC, LATIN AMERICA

The Committee on International Exchange of Persons,
appointed by the Conference Board of Associated Research
Councils, has announced that in recent months Executive
Agreements have been signed with Paraguay and Brazil,
bringing to a total of seven the Latin American Republics
participating in the Fulbright Educational Exchange Pro-
gram. Both the Paraguayan and Brazilian programs are ex-
pected to be inaugurated in 1958, and the committee wel-
comes inquiries.

The 1959-60 announcement of university lecturing and
advanced research awards in the Latin American Republics,
South and Southeast Asia, and the Pacific Area will be issued
early in March. The closing date for making application is
April 25, 1958. Awards are offered:

In Latin America: for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Ecuador, Paraguay, and Peru

In the Pacific Area: for Australia and New Zealand

In South and Southeast Asia: for Burma, India, Pakistan,
the Philippines, Thailand.

The same announcement will include a list of openings
for the academic year 1958-59 under the Educational Ex-
change Program with Ireland. This Program utilizes Irish
currency and is generally patterned after exchanges au-
thorized by the Fulbright Act. Other 1958-59 interim pro-
grams to be announced are those for Iran and Taiwan, under
recently reactivated Fulbright Agreements.

Detailed program information and application forms
may be obtained from the Conference Board of Associated
Research Councils, Committee on International Exchange
of Persons, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington 25, D. C.

12


