HISTORICAL SUMMARY

This report is the beginning of a new series of
Progress Reports, on the activities of the MIT Computation
Center in education and research in the general area of
the utilization of high speed digital computing equipment
in science; engineering and management practice.

Previous Activity at M.I.T. - It is not the first
Progress Report on the subject to have been issued at MIT,
for the Institute has had a long history of activity in
the construction and utilization of computing equipment.
Por example, in 1936, the first model of the Bush Differen-
tial Analyzer was put Into use at the Institute; many problems
in physi¢s and engineering were sclved with its help. In
(see FV) the more accurate, electronically controlled
Rockefeller Differential Analyzer was put inte use. During
World Warr II it was of great assistance in solving many
scientific problems arising out of war work. In (see WWfiles)
construction was started on a high-speed digital computer,
which came to be called Whirlwind I. Design and construction
was supervised By Dr. J. Forrester and the work was financed
by the ONR, under Contract No.

Whirlwind I came inte operation in
Although most of its activity has been in support of the
Alr Defense Project now consolidated in MIT's Lincoln Labora
tory, up to 40% of ite time has been available to staff and

students at the Instltute, for general research. The machine


has ploneered a number of major new developments in machine
design and use. It was the first general purpose computer
to have magnetic core memory in routine use and its Pro-
gramming research staff was the first to develop techniques
for making the machine do its bookkeeping and program
checking, by making avallable, for the general user a set
of utility assembly and post-mortern programs.

The Office of Naval Research supported this
development of ways to make Whirlwind easier to use and
of programs for the use of the computer in a wide variety
of applications. Research Assistants, from nearly all
the departments at the Institute, worked with the fulle
time staff to make this broad advance possible. The
Guarterly Progress Reports, Published by the Whirlwind

Project from to the end of this year, give
the details of the work.

Increase in Research and Educational Needs - To
supervise the general research and educational use of
Whirlwind I, the Institute set up in 1952 a working Committee
on Numerical Analysis and Machine Computation, composed
of faculty members from interested departments. This
committee has reviewed the instructional courses, offered
at MIT, in this general field, and has recommended others
in order to widen the coverage. It undertakes to supervise
graduate thesis in this general fleld, if requested Ry a
department or a student and it has helped the Whirlwind


staff set priorities and general policies of operation,
for that portion of machine time available for general
use. With its support and encouragement the use of Whirl-
wind by staff and students has grown phenomenally in the
past three or four years. By now the majority of the Ph.D.
thesis in theoretical physics, in applied mathematics, in
operations research and in theory of structures add many of
the thesis in radiation theory, in aerodynamic theory and
in chemical engineering design use machine computation as
a matter of course. When one adds the research projects
carried on by faculty members, it is not surprising that
the demands had outgrown the time available on Whirlwind.
What was needed was 2 machine planned, installed
and run primarily for research and education use. With
the very rapid increase in the number of large computers
(more than a hundred large ones to be installed in 1957 alone!)
every scientist and graduate engineer, in the future,
would have to know how to use one in his work. MIT would
have to have a computation center, supplied with a variety
of computing machines of the most up-to-date type, operated
by persons who could teach operating techniques and super-
vised by a research and educational staff interested in
working cut better methods of machine utilization and in
research on the basic lozic of machine programming .
The staff, in addition to machine specialists,
should include scientists and engineers, of a variety of

backgrounds, who could work with various students and


faculty members who desired to use the equipment for
research in their own special fields. This researche-
educational-consulting staff should provide the "impedance
mateh” between the machines znd the research worker in
any of the fields of the physical or social gsclences, of
engineering or of administrative practice. And the machine
and staff must be set up and financed in a way so that
access to the machine and to the advice of the stall will
be free to those students and faculty members who have a
worth-whlle research problem which requires computational
assistance appropriate for machine aclution.

Arrangements with I.B.M. Corporation ~ Discussions
with Dr. Cuthbert Hurd of the International Bue iness
Machines Corporation (IBM) and, later, with Mr. Thomas J.
Watson, Jr., President of the Corporation, showed that
IBM was aware of these educational problems and was willing
to contribute toward their solution. With their enlight-
ened and forward-looking aid a contract was nego¢iated
between IBM and MIT by whieh:

1) An IBM 70% plus its auxiliary equipment is given,
rent free to MIT, to be installed in the new Compton
Laboratories at the Institute, IBM to provide maintenance
and two operators per shift. On the average, one shift
will be for the use of students and staff of MIT, one
shift for the use of other colleges and universities in
New England, cooperating in the use of the equipment
(the cooperating institutions) and, for the time being, the


third shift for the use of IBM for some basic research of
its own.

2) IBM provides up to B00,000 per year for the
appointment of Research Assistants and Associates to spend
part of their time learning to use the equipment and then
helping their colleagues tc use the equipment. Half of
these funds will go for appointments made among graduate
students or staff at MIT and the other half goes for
similar appointments made to graduate students or staff
at the various cooperating institutions in New England.

3) MIT will provide the educational and research
staff of the Center, in part by assignment of regular
faculty to part-time duty at the Center, in part by sollcli-
ting funds from other sources for research into machine use
and in part by contributions {rom other research projects
at MIT, whieh will use the equipment in thelr educational
and research activities.

4) IBM will reimburse MIT for additional expenses
involved in making the equipment available to the cogpera=
ting institutions.

5) No classified research is to be carried out on the

equipment. Every computation done during the two (MIT and

cooperatinz institutions) Shifts must be a part of some
research which may be published in some sc¢ientifile journal

or be apart of some regular educational activity of MIT or
the cooperating inatitutions, open to regular students of
these institutions. Since no charge will be made for machine


time the oriterion for allocating machine time to publish
able research or educational projects will be the importance
of the objectives, the appropriateness of machine use to the
attainment of these objectives and the degree to which

this use will contribute to the education of students or
faculty in the most effective use of computing equipment.
This allocation will be made by the Director of the Center,
wlth the advice of the MIT Committee on Numerical Analysis
and Machine Computation, for the MIT shift, and of a
Committee of the Official Representatives of the Cooperating
| Institutions, for the cooperating New England Institutions

shift.
Formation of the Computation Center This generous

and constructive contribution has made it possible to
establish a Computation Center at MIT, with some of the
characteristics of = Department, to implement the contract
and to serve as a center for researeh into new and better
ways of utilizing high speed computers and for educat ion

in these new and better ways. During the year covered by
this contraet, since the equipment was not yet installed,
&ctivity has been largely confined to ergainlzing the
Center, setting up the communication links with the cooper
ating Institutions, arranging for the additional support

for the staff and planning for training courses ang research
activities, though a certain amount of research has actually
been started. Eaen of these aspects of activity will be


reported in detall, later in this Report .

Future issues of thease Progreas Reports, which will
be published twice a year, will of course be devoled more
to accomplishments than to plans, more to resulis than
to organization. The present Report in expected to
serve a3 an introductory description of organization,
policies and initial plans, which will be referred tO
vy later Reports. succeeding Reports will, in the main,
discuss the sducat ional activities of the cocperating
institutions in the field of computer use and will report

on each of the research problems which used machine time.


ORGANIZATION

The Computation Center at the Institute is
an interdepartmental and inter-divisional activity with
a Director, who reporis to the Chancellor of the Institute.
The Center does not offer regular gourges of instruction
nor dees it give degrees, but it has an academic budget
and academic appointments, with the rank of Visiting
Fellow, Research Asscclate or Researeh Assistant may be
assigned to it. Part of its staff are also faeulity members
of various academic departments, who teach courges in
various aspects of computing machine utilization ang
operavion; offered by their departments. The Center alse
offers special courses of training, without regular
academic eredit, from time to time, to Persons from the
Cooperating instituticns and from industry. It alsc
Sponsors special conferences en various aspects of machine
computation.

Reporting to the Director of the Center is an
Assistant Director for Operations, who is responsible for
the day-by-day operation of the equipnent,; the scheduling
of machine runs and other administrative agtivitlies;: and
two Assistants tc the Diregtor, one in charge of the
Programming Research staff and the other in charge of the
18M Research Assistants and Associates. Members of the
staff of the Center, part or full time, report to one or

the other of these three officers.


Advising the Director, in regard to the Work of
the Center with regard to MIT, is the institute Committee
on Numerical Analysis and Machine Computation, Consisting
of faculty representatives appointed by the hesds of Licse
departments of the Institute with active interest in machine
computation. Advising the Director, in regard to the
Cooperative program st the Center, of the other Colleges
énd universities in New England, is the Cooperative Program
Council, consisting of faeulty members (called Institutional
Representatives) eppointed by the Presidents of the
Cooperating institutions.

Arrangements to have computation done at the
Center by a student Or faculty member of a cooperating
inttitution are made through the appropriate Institutional
Representative, by & student or faculty member of MIT
are made through the appropriate department head. Details
of' the proeedures are cutiined later in this Report. The
duties of the staff of the Center are;

1) To carry on research in numerical analysis, in
the logie of coding and in the deve lopment of programming
techniques.

2) To investigate procedures for recording and
processing of large~quantity experimental datas or operational
regords or other information, and to develop programs for
the statistical analysis of such data and its display or

presentation in quickly understandable form.


3) Teo aid in instrueting students and others in
these subjects, and to help supervise student research
in thease [{lelids.

4) To build up a library of useful sub-routines for
the aclution of often-encountered problems, to prepare
instruction manuals, lists of routines, tables of functions,
ete., which will improve and extend the utilization of
computing equipment at MIT and elsewhere. |

5) To participate in conferences and other joint
activities with staffs of other computation centers, so that
knowledge of this rapidly chenging field e¢an be exchanged

with other workers.


