1/

00-15 WATION CENTER

muschusotts Institute of homology
manage 39, Massachusetts

mm
10: hurt-ant Heads Date: April 10, 1957
Fran: P. ll. Horse, Director

Subject: Approvel of Requests for amputation Time at the Center

 

l. The Center has let up the rule that n11 research workers,
Insulty or students. who wish to use the equipment of the Center in the
course of their resenrch, lust npply tox- npprovsl of their computing plans
end for assignment at machine tine, using the torus enclosed. Machine tine
tor unclassiﬁed research. connected with graduate education, is free, but
we need the iomlisl of on oppliootion so as to have the chance to look
over conputstion pleas before they are started. to see whether they are
feasible and to see whether we can allocate the required time. (so classified
work till he done at the Center.)

2. The Center is asking that each Department Head approve each such
application which involves either faculty» members or students in his department,
before the application comes to us. We feel this added requirement is desirable
because:

 

1. It gives you 3 chance to see what use your department is
making of the Center (you my wish to keep a record of the forms you
have OK'd.)

2. It gives us the benefit of your judgement of the value of
the proposed research to the educational activities carried on by
MIT. We do not ask you to judge the feasibility of putting the
problem on s computing machine (we will do that); we :12 ask that
you approve only those requests which represent useful research in
the field of your department and which contribute non—trivially to
the education of one or more students.

3. We do not ask that you approve requests for machine time
from 053 projects. involving only DSR staff members in the prosecution
of the research of their project. Such purely project computation,
usually of a more routine nature, will have lower priority in machine
time assignments, will be expected to contribute ﬁnancially to the
support or the Center, if time is assigned, and arrangements for
this work will be discussed between the Center and the Project
Supervisor directly, without needing to bother you. in any case, the
work must be publishable.

 

4. To approve an application, you should sign in the box on the
right—hand collum, marked "Inst. Repo Approval", circled in red in the enclosed
sample. We will not accept an application without such a signature;

5. If you have any questions about these procedures please call or
see me or Prank Verzuh.

m