May 12, 1959
Rough Draft

Dear :

Last summer when I was at Endicott at the IBM Conference for
Directors of University Computing Centers, I was asked to do some
thinking about organizing further meetings of Directors of these
Centers and in fact whether it would be appropriate for such
Directors to organize themselves into a formal or informal society.
I have hesitated for some time as to what action is appropriate,
partly because I am mildly opposed to proliferating additional
societies or conventions and partly because I have been extremely
busy this year. It was, however, suggested that a meeting of
people interested in this general field might be arranged either
before or after the Am meeting here this fall. A recent talk
with the local Program Committee for thls meeting, however,
discouraged this action and I am somewhat at a loss as to where
to go next. Consequently, I am writing for your advice.

It is perfectly true that the Directors of university
computing centers have problems which are not touched on in the
present Ac) meetings or in other computer meetings. They:= are
of course more in the nature of administrative problems, although
these certainly can be real. Whether they could be helped by
having occasional meetings at which these problems can be discussed
or whether they can be taken care of adequately by informal
discussion at meetings such as the Abe) I am not sure. It 1s

possible, 1f only occasional meetings would be useful, that the


Rough Draft, May 12, 1959, Page 2

National Science Foundation would be willing to be of financial
help. What is needed, however, is some indication from you who
are directing university computing centers as to the need for
such a meeting and the possible agenda, 1f 1t 1s needed. There
is to be an Eastern Computer Conference in Cambridge later in the
year. This meeting could be scheduled near 1f if such action
seemed appropriate. On the other hand, there may be advantages in
meetings separate from such large convocatlions at some quiet spot
where we could talk things over at leisure. Or, of course, we
should not meet at all.

I will be again at the IBM Conference in June where, I am
sure, the topic will come up again. I would certainly appreciate
your comments on this general question, particularly if they can
reach me before June 15.

Sincerely,

Philip M. Morse, Director
MIT Computation Center


