com on mam METHCOS OF GOHPUTATIOII
Hinutes g_f_ the Fifth hasty
January 15, 1951}

Persons Present: a. S. Brown, s. K. Caldwell, J. H. Forrester,

F. Hildebrand, J. A. Hrones, c. c. Lin,
P. a. Horse, I. U. Seifert, F. .H. Verzuh

The initial discussion concerned the form of the pro-
posed report on future plans for large computing machines in the
Institute. Horse asked Adams, Seifert, and Verzuh to work up a
preliminary draft on the present situation of the large ﬁachines
at the Institute, their budget, their. distribution of effort
(proJect work, class aids, educational research). This draft
should only be several pages in length. The Comittee as a whole
can then modify it appropriately later.

Professor Gordon Brown of the Electrical Engineering
Department then talked on the future need for machines at the
Institute. He emphasized that machines should not be considered
Just as other gadgets to be supported as such but that machines -
should always be considered in connection with broad scientific
problems which the Institute feels itwshould pursue. Caldwen
pointed out that there are three areas wherein machines are use-
ful at the Institute: .

\

(1) In helping classroom teaching in numerical
analysis and machine programing,

(2) Educational research carried on by the faculty
and students; here the machine would be a service facility which
would make possible certain research otherwise not possible,

(3) 'Project research machines specifically to solve
large problems related to the general trends of the Institute's
work as discussed by Professor Brown.

The further discussion indicated that with regard to
(3) there should be no great difficulty in financi and that the
size and budget for equipment to satisfy (1) and (2 met be very
carefully looked into.

The next meeting of the Machine Committee will be at
3:00 p.m., marsday, February 11. horse will endeavor to have
Professor Draper present to continue this discussion.

‘sz-j) . ~ [“ka
$5334)? ‘
Philiﬁg‘ﬁ' ﬁk
Chairman

P!!!

324