MITCC-3 ‘ #,1.T. Computation Ceater

" Minutes of February 21, 1956 Meeting |
' 1
Persons Presenmt: D. N. Arden G. T. Hunter ; |
7. B. Hildebrand o whae R N Vormin

After a brief review of the summdr schedule and a statement on the
704 course which will be held August 20-3L, 1956, sn attempt was mede to
set the date for the numerical anplysis lectures which are to be given
by Professor Hildebrand. It was eetimated that approximately 16 people
2yom the Whirlwind and Statistical Services staffs would be present, and
that the total enrollment would be less than 25 people. The exact date
of ithe class will be set in the near Zuture.

Aunter veported on his visit to the University of Rhede Island, end
stated that Professor Niels Rorholm, Assistant Professor of Agricultural
Feonomics, will act as Liaison Representative at M.1.T. on the 704 program.
Rhode islend will probably not apply for research sssistantships and
associateships this year .

Morse discussed the agenda for the meeting of the Ingtitutiocnal
Representatives and suggested that the following items be considered at our
next meeting:

‘ i. Select six (6) egency committee members for the 23 institutions,

 

3. Rank file available applicants for research associateships.

 

Morse indicated that the Ccmputation Center would probably be set up
| similar to the present Center Ior International Studies which would allow |
the Director to appoint staff members without recourse to departmental |
affiliation. | |

gunter inquired about the proper procedure Ior visiting various institutions
| during the spring term, and it was agreed that the firet few visits would be
| made jointly by Morse and Hunter, and other visits would be made after March 15
| ag required. Howaver, & luncheon meeting will be held with Prof, G. Orcutt,
Harverd University, on Friday, February 24, 1956. A meeting with Professor
| Esgignmann, Northeastern University, will be set up some time next week.

 

| The next meeting of this group will be held in Room 6-109 2t 2 p.m. On
Tuegday, February 28, 1856,

| ¥. M. Verzuh
\ Februgry 23, 1956

FMV:nb