It might be worth while to let your
Department 's Graduate Registration Officer
know about this man. an

July 20, 1960

Mr. Carl oes
3406 Hollister Road

Cleveland Heights 18, Ohlo
Dear Mr. Opaskar:

We have an increasing amount of research going on in
the fields of programming research, machine translation, automata
theory, and the like, in which a graduate student can work and
obtain a doctor's degree. Graduate students who have reglstered
in mathematics, physics or electrical engineering, for example,
can concentrate in computer sclence, either taking the regular
doctor's examinations for thelr department and doling a thesis in
computer science, or else arranging to take a speclal doctor's
examination and obtaining a degree without specification of
department.

Professor McCarthy, who edited the book on automata
theory, is in the Department of Electrical Engineering here.
Professor McCarthy, in the Department of Mathematics, 1s also
interested in this general field, which includes problems of
getting a machine to prove mathematlcal theorems. There 1s also
a project working on language translation under Dr. ¥Yngve. We
also have a group working on the very difficul® programming
problems arising when one wishes to time-share a blg machine
among a large number of simultaneous users.

We are at present changing our installation from that
of a TOS to that of a TO9 and hope in the next year or so to put
in a 7090. Research Assistantships, awarded by the Computation
Center, are avallable to students, registered in any department,
who wish to specialize in the field of computer science.

If you are interested in coming here the year after
next, I suggest you make out the enclosed application blank and
send it, plus the letters of recommendation, To me with an indica-
tion as to which department you might wish to reglster in. I will
then see what chances you may have and will have time to write you
before the rush begins. The competition for admlsslon to the
Graduate School in any department here is quite stiff, of course.

Sincerely,

Philip M. Morse, Director
PMM: 1wh
ges Prof. McCarthy
Prof. Minsky


