ON THE FINITE DETERMINATION OF CRITICAL LATTICES
HARVEY com:1

1. Introduction. We are concerned here with the determination of
critical lattices with respect to a given ﬁnite convex body K contain~
ing the origin and symmetric to it. According to the usual terminol-
ogy, a critical lattice is a K—admissible lattice of minimal determinant,
while a K-admissible lattice is one all of whose points, except the
origin, lie on or outside K. It is not hard to show [5, p. 13]2 that a
critical lattice exists for every such K.

In d-dimensional space a lattice is determined by (21 real variables or
d vectors af, ag, - - - , (1;. If K is deﬁned by a gauge function, in
vector form cI>(x,‘) g 1, then the problem is to minimize the de-
terminant of the af subject to the inﬁnitude of side conditions

(1) @(Pwti'l‘ P2“; + ' ' ' + Patti» g 1

where (Pi) runs through all integer sets except the origin. Now, as
mentioned earlier it is possible to show the existence of a critical
lattice of positive determinant, in fact, by the use of a compactness
argument. We shall show, however, by means of a theorem in the
companion paper [1 ], that the inﬁnite set (1) can be reduced to a
ﬁnite set whose number of inequalities depends only on d. Thus, for
instance, we are assured that when K is bounded by algebraic sur-
faces, then among the (possibly continuous) set of critical lattices, a
lattice with an algebraic basis can be found.

Results such as these are implied in the classical reduction theory
of quadratic forms and of star bodies [2]. Indeed, Minkowski [3, pp.
51, 101] solved the problem for convex bodies explicitly when (i=2
and 3, giving the most economical set of inequalities. The sets given
here will be far from economical, but the methods will be compari-
tively simple and geometrically intuitive.

2. Finite bases lemma. Let «if, 0);, - - - ,0); be a set of d independent
vector: on the surface of the ﬁnite :ymmetric convex body K, and belong-
ing to a K admissible lattice. Then the lattice has a baxix from the follow-
ing ﬁnite set:

 

Presented to the Society, November 25, 1950; received by the editors August 30,
1950.
1 The author wishes to acknowledge the helpful adviceof Mr. C. A. Rogers and of a

referee.
’ Numbers in brackets refer to the bibliography at the end of the paper.

547