Minutes of the Third Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

December 6, 1950

ggggggs £££§§ﬂh3 G. 5. Brown H. Feshbach -J. W. Forrester
Z. Kopal, 0: Lin, P. M. horse and E. Reissner

Professor Reissner reported on the procedure for doctor's
candidates in the Department of Mathematics. A written quali—
fying examination, similar to that in Physics, is given, usual-
ly at the end of the first year. This is based on the material
in five undergraduate and beginning graduate courses:' Algebra,
Analysis, Geometry, and two terms of Complex Variables. The
Committee felt that little modification of this preliminary ex»-
amination would.be needed for men wishing to obtain a degree
from the Mathematics Department in Numerical Analysis. Perhaps
a few less questions could be asked in Complex Variables and
Geometry, and a few questions could be added on Numerical
analysis, or Machine Methods or on Physics, but that the modi—
fications could be taken up‘wnen a specific example arose.
After some discussion, it appeared probable to the Committee
that, for the time, most graduate students coming in to the
field of Numerical Analysis would be fairly well grounded in
the undergraduate subjects of either the Mathematics course or
the Electrical Engineering course, and that therefore most of
the students which this Committee might help supervise could be
handled by suitable minor modifications or either the Electrical
Engineering or Mathematics qualifying examination. Sooner or
later, of course, as the Committee became better known, cases
would arise which would not fit these two alternatives. It was

felt, however, that such problems were best treated as they
came up.

Two specific cases of men in the Mathematics Department
were discussed: Helwig and Porter. They have taken the neces-
sary undergraduate courses in Mathematics, but they have not
yet taken their qualifying written exam. It is felt, however,
that there is no particuler problem in their taking the regular
Mathematics exam, and that the Committee can first help in
these cases in helping supervise their thesis research.

At this time, Professor Gordon Brown came to the meeting
and the discussion turned to consideration of the specific
cases of graduate students in the Electrical Engineering Depart-
ment. The following tentative decisions and questions were
raised:


hinutes of the Third Meeting of the .
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation ~2-

(l) Seize . He has taken his written examination, but not
his oral preliminary. A supervisory committee (Kopal, Hazen,
Linvill) has been appointed. Professor Brown is to consult as
to whether it would be more appropriate to have Professor Thomas
of the Mathematics Department on the Committee, instead of Pro-
fessor Essen. If this is not desirable, no change is to be made
here. '

(2) gen. His supervisory committee is yet to be appointed.
It was suggested that Professor Feshbach might be a suitable
member of this committee. Professor Brown will advise us later.

(3) garrus has not yet takenkis written qualifying examina-
tion; he will probably take it in February. It was suggested
that the usual Electrical Engineering written examination be
modified in his case to de—empnasize power machinery, magnetic
circuits, and electrical measurements, and tnat Professors Lin
and Reissner arrange to.provide questions for one of the three
threeenonr ei animations to be given in the subjects of courses
M351, M352 and M39, to be substituted instead of the exam on the
the three subjects to be deuemphesized. In addition, Professors
Feshbac.h and horse will help in writing questions on Physics for
this part 01 the examination. Professor Brown is to notiiy the
four Committee members involved as to deadline dates on these
questions.

(4) Bootgn is intending to take the regular Electrical En-
gineering written examination, although Professor Brown will ask
him whether he would prefer to take the same examination as is
planned for Carrus.

(5) Miss Fox has dropped her registration for the present,
but will, it is hoped, return next year. Presumably, she would
take the regular Mathematics qualifying written.

(6) Dolangky may also be a suitable person to take the ex-
amination prepared for Carrus, but any action will await Pro-
fessor Brown's word in the matter.

(7) V'ergph. This case is to be taken up again next time,
since it involve.s certain fundamental policies which need more
detailed consideration. Professor Brown will meet with the Com-

mittee next Wednesday at 10:00 A. M.


