WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE
WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS

DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS

November 23, 1050

Professor P, M, Morse

Director, Computation Center
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

At the seminar for wmiversity computing center di-
rectors at Poughkeepsie last June I mentioned to you that we
were thinking of organizing a conference for faculty of
colleges not yet seriously involved with automatic computa-
tion. The objective would be to provide them some guidance
in the various possibilities for entering this field in a
reasonable way, plus up-to-date instruction in numerical
analysis and a little experience in using one or two machines
(our 610 and probably your 704 if permissible for this pur-
pose.)

Your favorable reaction at that time encouraged us
to inquire further into the merits of this idea. In particular
we have recently sampled the opinions at 44 colleges, mostly
smaller ones in New England and New York, Of the 27 who have
replied, about 75% are interested in sending a representative
to this conference, assuming that it is held here for two or
three weeks the latter part of June 1960 and is supported by
the National Science Foundation or some other sponsor. This
response suggests that we shonld submit a proposal to N.S F,,
but before doing so, I would greatly appreciate your advice
on 4a comnple of aspects: | ——— :

One concerns the relation of this conference to the
meeting of computing center directors being organized by the
committee set up at Poughkeepsie under your chairmanship. As
I see it, the former should benefit greatly from the results
of the latter, provided it is held in time. Also there should
be little if any overlap of personnel, unless yon intend to
have smaller colleges represented strongly. TI will be grate-
ful for your evaluation of any potential conflict which might
tend to cloud the matter at the N,S.F. or elsewhere,

- OVEer =~


Professor P, M. Morse

In addition, any
about our proposed confere
think it will pe timely an
in the limited time availa

I have been wnab
concerning which New Engla

Page 2

comments you might care to make
nce will be most welcome, Do yon

d able to accomplish its objectives
ble?

le to find ga definitive statement
nd institutions are eligible to par-

ticipate in the M.I.T, CC program, but I believe the only re-
quirement is the granting of academic degrees at the bachelor's
level or higher, Is this correct? My interest in this policy
is motivated by the hope that onr conference wonld stimulate

additional participation,

My intention was

to see you about these matters at

the Institutional Representatives meeting on November 13th,
Since that did not work ont, T will appreciate an early reply

ELB3:dmb

Sincerely yours,

ECC cot T foe EF

Elliott L, Buell


