NSF

-

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation

= o and Utlilization~~-Investigation into
the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research: including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilitlies of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysls
and presentation of experimental data and the working ocut of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems 1in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassesament during the fall of
1059 to determine whether further support 1s advisable,

Proposed Research; Background Information: Ve are organlzing what
should be one of the most fruitful cenfers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM 1s contributing
one of its 704 machineég, maintalned and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical englneering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine wlll be avallable,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staflf
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be thelr Institutional Representa-
tive (1list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there 1s an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, englneerling,
and business, A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in wmachine logic, in technlques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine