NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
‘ Washington 25, D. C.

FOR PRESS AND RADIO NSF-181 ' FOR RELEASE

Telephone: STerling 3-21m Decauber 3, 1956'
Extension 3100

FOUNDATION ANNOUNCES
SUPPORT OF FIVE COMPUTER CMTEES

The second in a series of grants in support of computation centers and
research in numerical analysis was announced today by Alan T. Waterman, Director
of the National Science Foundation. Grants totaling $230,000 were awarded as
follows: Cornell University, $50,000; University of California (Berkeley),
$50,000; University of Pennsylvania, $70,000; Princeton Ihﬁversi’cy, $0,000; and
Stanford University, $20,000. "_"‘

(Note to Editors and Science Writers: For you who are keeping
a running account of computer grants, and because it spells
out in detail the purposes and objectives of the grants, a
copy of an earlier press release (NSF-165, September 10, 1956)
is attached hereto for your convenience.)

The Cornell grant is designed to support the expanded research facility at
the University Computing Center which was used, during l9Sh-55, by 26 departments
and schools. Those which used at least 100 hours of machine time were: aeronau—
tical engineering, family relations, industrial and engineering administration,
industrial and labor relations, methanatics, psychology and plant breeding. The
University of Rochester has used the Center a total of hOO hours. It is expected
that the Center will extend its services to other institutions in the region.

The Urdversity of California grant was made to help develop a computer
laboratory on the Berkeley campus. A variety of scientific research under way
at Berkeley requires massive computation and includes such fields as engineering,
astronomy, genetics, education, physics, mathematics, statistics, and psychology.

Within the University of Pennsylvania, the computer center will be used by
the departments of mathematics, physics, chanistry, and astronomy, the Moore School
of Electrical Engineering, and the School of Medicine. Neighboring institutions
which expect to participate in the center are Bryn Mawr College, University of
Delaware, Swarthmore College, Temple University and Haverford College.

John von Neumann, now a Member of the Atomic Energy Commission, designed the
original high—speed computer now at Princeton University which became the proto-
type for all large machines with internally stored programs. Research on stellar
evolution and nuclear physics will continue to employ the machine, while further
use is related to the design, construction, and operation of a 3 billion volt pro-
ton accelerator now under way at Princeton.

- more -