THE SUPPORT OF MACHINE PROGRAMMING STAFF a
FOR THE UTILIZATION OF ° Ts
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS IN SOCIAL SCIENCE

The_Facility and Its _Potentialities

The high-speed computing facility, to be installed by
iBM at the new Computation Center at MIT will be the largest and
most flexible faclllty in this country to be devoted exclusively
to unclassified research and education. IBM will contribute more
than a fifth of a million a year in its support for maintenance
and operation. What 18 needed, in addition, to make this an out-
standing center for the investigation of digital computer
potentlalities In all branches of scientific research, is about
$100,000 a year for the support of a research staff, which can
work with sclentists in various fields to develop new and more
effective techniques of machine utilization.

Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in New
England to participate in the use of the machines, and IBM has set
up funds for Assistantships ©0 enable graduate students, at MIT
and at the participating colleges, to spend time at the Center
learning to use the equipment. This Center and these arrangements
represent potentialities for new developments in social and
physical science of great and unexplored importance.

| There will be no charge for machine time made to students
or faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the
routine aspects of operation will be taken gare of by IBM, so that
those who know how fo use such equipment can use 1t, without cost,
up to the fourteen hours a day during which the machine will be
available at first. A number of problems in economics are going
to be put on the machine by Professor Solow of MIT and by Professor
Orcutt of Harvard and, as other research workers in the social
sciences learn how to use the equipment, other problems will be
brought to the Center.

The Importance of Team Research

But an instrumentality, by itself, cannot produce new
research. To make the Important sdvances which are possible with
a computer of the speed and flexibility of this, one needs a team
of research people, some of whom know the machine and some of whom
know the research fleld. To get execlting new possibilities beyond

the stage of a "gleam In the eye" we need, in addition to the
machlne, a staff of experts in machine use, ready to team up with
those sclentists who believe the machine can help them but are not
sure how, so that, between them, they can translate the "gleam in
the eye" into new and important results.

ine i srafl


In the long run, the various social scientists In New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them. But it takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers in
any field are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic details of its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed ln our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using computers
in social science now, we will have to use a team: a man who Knows
the field plus 2 wan who knows the machine.

Need for a Research Staff in Machine Utilization, an
Ingredient in the Team

This last ingredient 1s the part which 1s left out of
the contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-
time staff of enthusiastic machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do its tricks and to Joln with
research workers who come with a "gleam in their eye", forming
teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's capabllltles
in research. This staff will be hard, but not impossible, to
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chiefly toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant of $35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the partici-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun to make
contact with those students who are interested in machine utillza-
tion. There are about two dozen IBM research assistants appointed
for this year. We should be able to pick from the best of these a
few who would like to stay on for two or three years more, after
they have obtained their advanced degrees In engineering, mathe-
matics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potentlal
members of research teams.

Budget for the Social Sclences

To make up a staff which could handle the soclal science
problems as well as the phiysical science ones would need another
four or Five good men, research men plus the technicians To back
them up, plus a small budget for travel and Iincldental supplies
and equipment, approximately 35,000 a year for three years. It
would take about three years to get rolling and the developments
should be reviewed at the end of three years, to see where to go

3
Vv

¥

next. Such a staff should be more important during the beglnning
stages of the utilization of electronic computers, when the prob-
lems are not too clearly formulated and when neither partner in
the team knows the other's plans and ideas. Later, when some of
the more Important potentialities have been demonstrated, the
research can be split up into projects, each with a definite goal
and with its own budget, which can include partial support for the
continuing staff of the Center. So, eventually, the Center could


. the problems of language

3

be financed tndirGetly by contributions from each project which
uses 1t, if this were considered to be the most desirable way of
keeping it going. At present, however, support by contributions
from established research pro jects can support only about a third
of the $100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the most
fruitful research of all, the unknown results which are sure to
come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together with
the economist, psychologist or sociologist on the faculty of one
of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with only a
"gleam in his eye”.

Possible Initial Directions Por Investigation

As indicated, we cannot write down in any detail the
directions which this research effort will take, as the various
teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immediate interest and which, in addition,
should provide hints as to still more important applications.

A. One of these is the deeper investigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 7X4 is too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines
are now programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, a few programs have
been devised to make the machine obey the rules of Boolean logic
and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make
the machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the
logic of a game. Different sciences and branches of learning
have their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetics each have patterns of thought which do not exactly
duplicate those of physics. Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which corres-
pond mcore closely to these other patterns. With a machine of the
flexibllity and storage capacity of the 704, such research is
worth while. It will have to be tackled, at the beginning, by
teamg of experts in the field of interest, together with mathe-
matical logicians who know machine operation.

ral line of attack is in the field of
23 to information, such as is needed in
ranslation and historical research, for

B. Another gen
the storage and rapid ace

=
“~
oy
=
i
L

example. Several scheme of coding of information, so that it can
be found quickly and easily, have been devised on paper, but the
"bugs" in such schemes will become apparent only when masses of
information, of the order of several hundred thousand items, are
to be ordered and sorted out... The new installation at the Compu-

tation Center will have a storage capacity of this size. Some of
the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed, by
members of the Center staff working with persons familiar with the
information and tis uses. Hor example, a project in machine
translation has alrea beer set up under the directbn of Professor
Locke of the Language Department. As it develops, it will need the
help of machine programming speclalists and will need the use of a
machine to test its ideas. The translation project is already
supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, but parallel work by the
Computation Center on techniques for rapid access to large-quantity

)


data would help this work as well as others. Another promising
direction of investigation 1s in the application of machine tech-
niques to library inventoryling, cataloging and record-keeping.
Although special-purpose machines will probably be required in the
end, many ideas and procedures can be developed and checked out on
the general-purpose machine at the Center with the addition, per-
haps, of some specially bullt input and output equipment. The
staff of the MIT Library is interested in this work and will con-
tribute its knowledge to its progress. |

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, in part
because the least investigated up till now, is in the field of
soclal sclence experiments, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referee. Tactical situations in warfare are
already belng studied by "gaming techniques" at Rand and in other
military operations research groups. Similar problems in various
fields of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying
fhe situation down to some sort of "game", with more or leas com-
plicated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators, to
see what the consequences are of various strategies. If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to some actual social situation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require a
great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that only
by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded up
sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide
an over-all grasp of the sltuation under study. Such "gaming
techniques" are closely related to the experiments of Bavelas on
the behavior of task-oriented groups. The use of a properly pro-
grammed computer would provide such experiments with a powerful
and flexible means of changing, controlling, and analyzing these
experiments in social psychology. In this field we could work in
close collaboration with the Center for International Studies at
MIT and with the psychology departments in several other colleges.

Suggested Guidance for the Research
ee etammastem sete oe wees ea oo ee ur od

The research activities of the Computation Center are
guided and coordinated by an Advisory Committee consisting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges, each
chosen by the president of his college. This Committee provides
over-all policy guidance in all activities. But to guide the work
in social science outlined above, we will need another, more spe-
clalized group. If financial support. for this activity is forth-
coming, about six top-flight sceial scientists from the participating
institutions will be invited to join a special advisory committee,
to talk over possible lines of research with the Center staff, to

help find those soclal scientists with "gleams in their eyes" re-
garding machine utilization in their I'ield, ©o help arrange the

formation of teams for the pursuit of the suggested research and
to advise on relative priorities, 1f and when there is more work

to be done than there is machine time available.


Equiprent, Perscnnel and Budget

The suggested budget for three years is tentative and is
more dependent on our ability to hire one or two more experts in
computer programming than on the amount of work to be done. If we
can find more men of the right sort, more work can be done. During
the calendar year 1957 we may not be able to find more than one
senior man, one or two post-doctoral fellows and a couple of tech-
nical assistants. By the fall of 1957 we may be able to persuade
one or two faculty members of the cooperating institutions to spend
appreciable fractions of their time at the Center, working on some
of the problems mentioned esrlier. A suitable fraction of their
salaries should be carried by the research funds of the Center
and, 1f the work is in the social sciences, would be chargeable
to the proposed grant. Some of the experiments in "gaming" will
require special input or output equipment. Therefore 1t way turn
out that less than $35,000 will be spent the first year, more than
£35,000 the second. The lmportant point, however, 1s that because
of the presence of the equipment of the Center, supported by IBM,
the ma jority of the budget of this grant can be spent on salaries
for people directly carrying out the research cutlined in this
proposal.

The staff can begin to be assembled this spring, but
expenditures would probably not reach full rate until the summer
of 1957. Consequently, the grant could officially start March or
April 1957, or could start as late as June, if some earlier
expenditures could be charged against the grant at that time.


