AIMS AND OBJECTIVES OF "REPORTS ON RESEARCH"

The "Reports on Research,'" a semi-confidential bulletin
issued monthly, except during the summer, aims to cover in a
broad, interpretive way, progress being made in the different
fields of research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Written to acquaint interested persons with the latest advances
in research at the Institute, one of the primary aims of fthis
publication is to stimulate thinking of M.I.T. as a place where
significant scientific and engineering research is being con-
ducted by outstanding groups whose work deserves continuing
financial support.

Readers of "Reports on Research" include the Institute's
Faculty and staff. Primarily, however, the publication is
intended for a select group of business and industrial leaders
and research directors who may support M.I.T. research and
participate in the Institute's Industrial Liaison Program.
Becaugse of the varied technical background of those receiving
"Reports on Research," articles for this news bulletin should
be as interestingly written, and informative as possible and
should make minimum demands on the reader's familiarity with
highly specialized subjects. An informal, clear, direct style
is the goal, with each article written in such a way that non-
specialists, as well as technical personnel, may derive infor-
mation and stimulation from it.

In preparing copy for "Reports on Research," an attempt
is made to simplify whatever explanatory facts are necessary
in order that any intelligent individual may grasp the meaning
- and particularly the technical, social and economic signifi-
cance of the research being reported. No attempt is made to
provide a technical discourse for the expert. "Reports on
Research" is not in competition with any technical publication.
In fact, one aim of this bulletin is to present advance mate-
rial in such form (usually in from 500 to 1,000 words) as may
stimulate, rather than prejudice, publication of the final

research papers in journals of science, engineering, and
technology.

In preparing material for publication, the edifor will
need the assistance of those persons responsible for the re-
search being reported. Such assistance will be required in
obtaining the essential facts, 1n evaluating the significance
and interpreting the results of research, in obtaining neces-
sary or desirable illustration, and in approving final copy
prior to publication.