Minutes of the Meeting with Dr. Hurd, I.B.M. Corp.

December 15, 1954

Persons Present: C. F. Floe, P. M. Morse, Cuthbert C. Hurd, F. M. Verzuh
(R., H. Gregory, G. S. Brown, T, M. Hill, T. M. Whitin)

Dr. C. C. Hurd, Director of Applied Science Division, I.B.M. Corp.,
came to M.I.T. to discuss possible cooperation between I.B.M. and M.I.T.
with specific emphasis on the long-range computational program.

A preliminary meeting was held with Dr. Hurd in Verzuh's office
between 9 and 10 a.m. at which time Hurd was informed of the following
facts:

1. The present I.B.M. machine installations available at M.I.T.
and their annual rental costs. See Table I.

9. The educational teaching and academic research activities at
M.1.T.

3. Proposed future teaching and training activities at M.I.T.
4, Long-range computer requirements at M.1.T.

This discussion was followed by a quick tour of the Statistical Services
facilities.

The principal meeting was held in Morse's office and was attended
by Floe, Morse, Hurd and Verzuh. Morse briefly described the recent Conference on Tables
which was held at M.I.T. in September and requested Hurd's comments regarding
proper methods for future dissemination of information regarding new tables.
Morse then described our present computational activities and gave some indica-
tion of our needs for the future. Specifically, he indicated that WWl would be
released somewhere within the next five years and therefore the Institute had
to make plans for procuring some equipment in the caliber of the 700 EDPM ma-
chines. He stated that at the present time we are spending approximately
$200,000 a year for maintenance and operation of WWl. The question was then
raised as to how I.B.M. and M.I.T. could best cooperate to their mutual ad-
vantage in the future. Hurd indicated that I.B.M.'s interests were primarily
of two types:

1. The encouragement of educational training which would result
in the development of engineers capable of creating new and

better computing machines.

2. The encouragement of educational training of applications per-
sonnel.

He divided the latter into three categories:


a) Machine programming and coding personnel
b) Operations evaluation personnel
c) Business data handling personnel.

He went on to say that the I.B.M. Board would naturally evaluate any request
for additional gratis equipment for M.I.T. in light of the above. Specifi-
cally, for example, W. W. McDowell, Director of Engineering, would be very
concerned as to whether any gratis installation would further the development
of trained engineering personnel. Similarly, most members of the I.B.M. Board
would be greatly concerned about the development of personnel well versed in
business data handling procedures. Hurd specifically stated that he felt

that personnel trained in scientific computing were now more plentiful and no
longer a scarcity, whereas there is a definite dearth of personmel in the
business data handling field.

He further substantiated his needs by presenting a statement of
1.B.M.'s computer production schedule for the next two years. (See Table II)
It is apparent from the above table that the I.B.M. Board will be very con-
cerned about the effective utilization of the 705 and 650 machines since these
machines are designed principally for business data handling and processing.

Hurd then made the following suggestion. He wanted to know whether
M.I.T. would be interested in offering a Summer Session Course during 1955
at which I.B.M. would furnish the following:

a) A Type 650 Drum Calculator

b) An adequate number of I.B.M. personnel who are capable
of handling the problems application sections associated
with this course. (He felt that I.,B.M. should not furnish
personnel who would do active teaching, primarily because
he felt that they had nogne properly qualified, but further-
more because it simply was not proper for I.B.M. to appear
to "dominate.")

At this point it became evident that we should indicate what M.I.T.
was currently doing along these lines. Morse described the Summer Session
course in Operations Research which he has taught during the past two summers
and indicated that the School of Industrial Management (SIM) was to offer a
similar course during the summer of 1955. He also pointed out that C. A. Adams
was leaving M.I.T. on a leave-of-absence beginning February, 1955 and therefore
would not be available to present the business data handling course during the
summer of 1955 (unless M.I.T. could recall him for a two-week period). Floe
indicated that it was already too late to include a description of the sug-
gested course in the Summer Session brochure which is scheduled for release
early in January. However, he did indicte that a separate flyer could be sent
if the course were to be given. Finally, Verzuh expmssed his interest in
participating in such a summer session program and stated that the presentation
of such a course would naturally involve the cooperation of a number of M.I.T.
staff members as well as a few from outside the Institute (for example,

John Hancock Insurance Co. etc.). In this connection, it became apparent that
Hurd should meet with various members of the SIM to get a firsthand account

of their future plans in this area. It was therefore decided to arrange a
luncheon date which would include T. M. Hill, R. H. Gregory and T. M. Whitin.


—G=

At the condusion of the main meeting, some disuussion was given to
the following two questions:

1. Assuming that I.B.M. did supply a 700 series machine, would
M.I.T. prefer a Type 701 or a 702?

2. If such a machine were awilable, who would carry out the
maintenance program? (It should be mentioned that I.B.M.
currently supplies 3 of their customer engineers with each
701 used on a single-shift basis, and 5 engineers if the
machine is used on a second shift,) Needless to say, this
is an expensive item-- approximately $35,000 per year, assuming
$7,000 per annum per man-- and I.B.M. probably would not be
too happy about the financial cost. Furthermore, McDowell
would probably prefer to have M.I.T. engineers maintain the
machine since this in turn would lead to the development of
electronic development dngineers which he so badly needs.

Hurd further went on to say that perhaps we should consider the possibility
of I.B.M.'s sending up machine components, logical circuits, tape units,
drums, cores, etc. which could be assembled by M.I.T. engineers to form a
new computer.

Finally, Hurd asked when the official request from M.I.T. might be
received by T. J. Watson, Chairman of the Board. Floe stated that Killian
had not set a formal date as yet; however, he expects to do so in the near
future. Hurd pointed out that Watson, upon receipt of the request, would
immediately write to Hurd and ask him to go to M.I.T. to evaluate the situa-
tion. We all agreed that Hurd in effect had already done this.

Since Morse had to teach a class from 12 to 1 p.m., he was unable
to join the group for lunch. On the way to Faculty Club, Floe invited
G. S. Brown to join the group. During the luncheon, Brown described the
present and future plans of the Electrical Engineering Department in the
computation area. He felt it was in some respects unwise to accept machines
which I.B.M. was now manufacturing since this equipment was "five years behind
times.” He felt that the current shortcomings in the input-output area could
best be overcome by top-notch M.I.T. personnel assembling special-purpose
equipment on the premises tailored to suit a special application, thus in
effect by-passing the five-year design and production delay currently present
in the I.B.M. equipment. The use of general-purpose computers for certain
applications would be very much like "shooting rabbits with an elephant gun."
He went on to say that Linvill's group was currently developing equipment of
the special-purpose type and he suggested that Hurd come to see some of it.
At this point, Floe indicated the immediate need for equipment of the 700 Series
to fulfill the above-described training and business data handling programs.

After the luncheon, Floe, Hurd, Hill, Gregory, Whitin and Verzuh
retired to Hill's office to discuss the future plans for the School of Industrial
Management. Hill briefly described the two new subjects which SIM is to offer
for the first time during the summer of 1955, and in response to Hurd's query
regarding SIM participation in the suggested business data handling summer
subject, Hill's immediate reaction was that his staff whould probably be too
busy to cooperate since they are to teach two new subjects for the first time
during next summer. However, after some discussion, of the cooperative


arrangement which would be followed, he agreed that such a program would
probably be feasible, and his staff is now considering their degree of
participation in anticipation of Morse's inquiry regarding this matter.
Gregory then described the subject entitled "Managment Information Systems"
which is to be offered for the first time during the Spring Term 1955.
Hurd felt that this subject precisely satisfied I.B.M.'s desires in this
area and was most enthusiastic about it. Hurd again expressed his desire
to see a summer session course offered in which the 650 would be used for
active student participation. He felt that a subject covering a greater
length of time-- perhaps the entire summer -- having fewer lectures and
more student laboratory sessions would better suit his interests.

In conclusion, Hurd stated that he would determine whether a 650
could be assigned to M.I.T. (in addition to the one which is scheduled for
the Instrumentation Laboratory) in June, 1955 to assist with this program.

In the meantime, of course, appropriate M.I.T. personnel are to determine

too whether they wish to offer such a subject at that time. He then pointed
out that no official action could, of course, be taken by I.B.M. regarding

the 700 Series until the official proposal had been received from M.I.T.

Hurd informally asked Verzuh to carefully examine the relative advantages

of the 701 and 702 computers from the M.I.T. application standpoint in order
that the best machine be selected when and if the occasion arises. He further
emphasized that I.B.M. would welcome having M.I.T. personnel spend any amount
of time they wish at Poughkeepsie actually working with the machines to
develop data processing techniques.

 

F. M. Verzuh
December 17, 1954


