lay 13, 1959

Dr. Richard R. Hill

Assistant Director

lestern Beta Processing Center
University oi Celitornia

Los Angeles 24, California

Deer Dr. Bill:

 

Last Ill-0r when I was at Endioott at the mu Conference
for Directors or University Colputing Centers, I was asked to do
echo thinking about organising further neetings of Directors of
these Centers and, in tact, whether it would be appropriate for
such Directors to organise the-selves into a tonal or internal
society. I have hesitated tor soIe tile as to whet action is
appropriate. partly heceuse l as nildly opposed to proliferating
additional societies or conventions end, partly because I have been
onus-sly busy this year. It was, however. suggelted that s seating
02 people interested in this general iield night be arranged either
before or otter the AC]! looting here this fall. A recent talk with
the local Progrs- Collittee for this looting, however, discouraged
this action and I e- eonewhat at a loss as to where to go next.
Consequently, I an writing to:- your advice.

It is pertectly true that the Directors at university
conputing centers have problem which are not touched on in the
present AC! Ieetinge or in other conputer Ioetinge. They are, of
course. here in the nsture o! adhinistretive problem. although
these certainly can be real. Whether they could be helped by
having occasional Ieetings at which these proble-s can he discussed
or whether they can he taken care of adequately by internal discus—
sion at meetings such as the em, I an not sure. It is possible, if
only occasional meetings would be useful, that the National Science
Foundation would be willing to be or financial help. what is needed,
however, is sole indication from you who are directing university
conputing center: as to the need for such a meeting and the possible
agenda, it it is needed. There 13 to be an Eastern Colputer Conference
in Celbridge later in the year. This nesting could be scheduled
near it, it such action seemed appropriate. 0n the other hand, there
nay be advantages in meetings separate tron such large convocatione

at soee quiet spot where we could talk things over at leisure. 0r.
0! course, we should not met at all.