T

T
3

b

 

Minutes of Meeting, January 9, 1956
of
Institutional Representatives with IBM and MIT Staff,
to Discuss Plans for the Computation Center.

(Appended sheet gives 1list of attendees.)

1. Morse and Hurd gave the background of the projected
installation of the IBM 704 and the Computation Center to administer
it. They emphaslzed that the Center was set up primarily to provide
instruction iIn the use of high speed computers in science, engineering,
and buslness and that both operating procedures and financial support
wlll be planned to further this aim. Each participating school will
be expected to cocntribute on three levels: one senlor faculty
Ingtitutlonal Representative, who would act as offiecial coordinator

between his Insztiftution and the Computation Center on poliey and

financial mstters; one or more faculty membera who have an active
interest in learning about machine techniques, who would carry on
research at the Center and training in machlne use at hls college and
who would be appointed a Research Associate of the Center (some of
these would be filnanced, 1In part, Dy the I1BM Research Fund of the ,
Center, others would be supported by other projects by their colleges);
and one or-more Reseerch Asslistants, graduate students who would spend
part of their time at the Center helping program and run off problems
and who usually, though not necessarily, would receive atipends from
the IBM Research Fund, vla thelr college. The yearly amount for
awards for Research Associateshlps and Research Asslistantships for

the participating institutions 1s 30,000, an equal amocunt is for

MIT. These awards will be made by the Center, after consultation
with the Liaison Committee, which will be made up of scme of the
Institutlional Representatives, each serving for a limited time, so

as to have rotation of representation.,

2. Verzuh and Hunter described the installation, whieh is
expected to be placed in the new Compton Laborgtory the first part
of 1957. -

interested departments In their institution. It is hoped that
declisions could be made, this spring, for appolntments beginning
next fall.