ON THE FINITE DETERMINATION OF CRITICAL LATTICES
HARVEY COHN!

1. Introduction. We are concerned here with the determination of
critical lattices with respect to a given finite convex body K contain-
ing the origin and symmetric to it. According to the usual terminol-
0gy, a critical lattice is a K-admissible lattice of minimal determinant,

‘while a K-admissible lattice is one all of whose points, except the
origin, lie on or outside K. It is not hard to show [5, p. 13]2 that a
critical lattice exists for every such K.

In d-dimensional space a lattice is determined by @2 real variables or
d vectors oy, az, - - -, a;. If K is defined by a gauge function, in
vector form ®(x;) <1, then the problem is to minimize the de-
terminant of the a; subject to the infinitude of side conditions

(1) O(praq + pacts + - - - + pacy) = 1

where (p:) runs through all integer sets except the origin. Now, as
mentioned earlier it is possible to show the existence of a critical
lattice of positive determinant, in fact, by the use of a compactness
argument. We shall show, however, by means of a theorem in the
companion paper [1], that the infinite set (1) can be reduced to a
finite set whose number of inequalities depends only on d. Thus, for
instance, we are assured that when K is bounded by algebraic sur-
faces, then among the (possibly continuous) set of critical lattices, a
lattice with an algebraic basis can be found.
Results such as these are implied in the classical reduction theory
of quadratic forms and of star bodies [2] Indeed, Minkowski [3, Pp.
51, 101] solved the problem for convex bodies explicitly when d =2
and 3, giving the most economical set of inequalities. The sets given
here will be far from economical, but the methods will be compari-
tively simple and geometrically intuitive.

 
     
 
    
    
  

2. Finite bases lemma. Lef w;, wy, - ,w; bea sel of d independent
vectors on the surface of the finite symmetric convex body K, and belong-
ing to a K-admissible lattice. Then the lattice has a basis from the follow-
g finite set:

       
   
 

 

 

Presented to the Society, November 25, 1950; received by the editors August 30,
1950.

! The author wishes to acknowledge the helpful advice of Mr. C. A. Rogers and of a
referee.

? Numbers in brackets refer to the bibliography at the end of the paper.
547

      
 
    
   
  

T i gt T