TR 3

H.1.T. Computation Cenier Page 9 of 10

Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE CONSOLE OPERATOR

DUTIES

—
= — TR =

The console operator operates the Electronic Data Processing Machine (EDFM) including
the cemtral processing unit (CPU), the console, and aill 'on-line equipment', such as |
the magnetic tape units, magnetic drum unit, card reader, card punch, and the line

printer, wvespectively. He operates the CPU and associated equipment from the
operatoyr console.

He must recognize the condition of the machine from the display of lights on the
conscle and thus interpret the reason for any stoppages which cccur during anommnal
machine processing. He must be able to take immediate action based on his

interprecation of machine stoppage. He =eeps a recoxd of all stops and causes for
later diagnosis.

He is in charge of the EDPM operators speciiying which units are to be used, which
nagnetic tapes are involved, how wesults are To be recorded, etc. Since the 700 seriles
machines are extremely expensive devices (rental costs average approximately
812/minute), it is extremely important that the console operator be a gualified man!

QUALIFICATIONS | | 3
1., Educational Background":' " High school aducation-or equivalent is ossenfial.

 

2. Natural Ability and Aptidude: ability to get along with people and divect the
work of others is essential. He must make rapid decisions since machine time is
expensive.

 

3. Previous EBxperience: a knowledge of EAM has pyoven to be extremely helpful.
It is estimated that a minimum of three months is reguired to train a good
console operator,

4, Technical Skills: experience has shown that electyonic technicians, EAM machine
operators, etc., develop into excellent EDFM console operators.

5. Compatibility: since the EDFM console opervator is in charge of all nmachine
cperations, it is imperative that he be able to get along with various programmers,
and othexr machine useors. Depending on the mode of operation, his contacts may be
with a single scheduler-dispatcher or with many company employses. Pevscnal
compatibility veguirements will vaxy accordingly.

6. Physical Appeavance: a well-grcomed appearance is desirable, particularlyAin the
© "M.X.T. Computation Center whewre the eguipment will be of a "gshowplace" cheracterx.

7. Accuracy: Errors arve extremely costly resulting in major financial losses to
the company. Hence, they should be minimized.