EE ———— 2

PROGRAM WRITEUP

MIDPME -- DOUBLE-PRECISION SOLUTION OF MATRIX EQUATIONS
R. M. Moroney 9 July 1958

Mess, Inst, of Tech, Operations Research Project

This routine is dedicated to the proposition that anybody fooling
éround with double-precision numbers ie worried about loss of significant
figures somewhere, and very likely in the solution of a set of linear
equations, Consequently no computer time is spared in milking the best
resulte possible from the coefficient matrix supplied, and an estimate

of the significant figures in the solution vector is computed.

&. This routine requires one tape unit whose logical number must be c=

specified by a card of the form: NINE EQ X, X is normelly 9,

 

b. This routine contzins a modified version of RSO05 which is available
to the user, Modifications consist only of return to X+1 instead of
X+2 on the two sequences TSX S005,4 sand TSX S005 + 5,4,

This routine contains a tapewriting routine BOUTS, and & tape reading

routine BLINS, which are available to the user, See Appendix I,

This routine contsins a set of floating-point checking routines |

ADDOV, MULTO, and DIVCK, which are available to the user. Aprendix II.
ce The coefficient metrix ang right-hand side must be in normal form

for RSO005, i.e. lesst-significant part of number in register succeeding

most-significant pert, agreement in sign between both parts, exponent |

of least-significant part 33 (octal) less then that of most sig part.

Error estimates must be normalized gingle-register floating-point

 

numbers (error estimates will be defined later),


gimultaneous eumations are solved as follows:

a. An spproximeste inverse (M) of the coefficient matrix (A) is ob-
teined by en elimination method pirated from NYDMEI.

b. An initial estimete of the solution vector is teken as Mb, where
b ie the pg side.

¢c. An "itersting matrix" I-MA is formed and the solution is improved by
the formula Xye, = (I-MA)X, + MD until no decrease in
the length of the error vector Ax-b is obtained. The routine also
checks that the sbove method will converge by forming I-AM and checking
that the sum of the magnitudes of the elements in any row is less than
one, |

d. The spproximete inverse, end a set of estimates of the meximum error
in each row of the coefficient metrix, the latter supplied by the
user, are-used to compute & bound on the meximum error in each element
of the solution vector.

e. Solution of many sets of equations with the same coefficient matrix
is expedited by the subroutine DNEXT (see Appendix III) which takes
adventege of the fact that A, M, I-MA, and the "workspace" (see below)

ere saved on MT-NINE.

4p. 8, Assuming the approximate inverse is good onbuzh to assure convergence
of the iterstive method, this routine should supply the best results
obteinable with double-precision arithmetic.
b. The routine cen hendle any matrix up to 80 X 80, depending on the
size of core memory available,

c. Convergence of step ¢ in 4 gbove is assured because we have

Rez Ax, —-b
Rea 8 A Xs, = b = 4 (r-rA)xy +Ahb -b=

= (L-AM)Rk


and our check of I-AM assures convergence in the norm mex [=.1.
LC

See, for instance, Kolmogorov and Fomin Functional Analysis pp 43 pr.

d. For step d above see Hildebrand Introduction to Numerical Analysis

pp 436 fr.

D« Calling Sequence:

X TSX DMEBE,4
X¥1 PZT A,0,B
X+2 PZE C,0,D
X+5 PZE E

X+4 Error Return

X+5 Normal Return

Where: A is the FWA of the coefficient matrix, stored by columns.

B is the dimension.

C is the FWA of 2n X n consecutive registers, separated from

X,A,D and E, which may be used by the program for temporary

We ep On.

storage, Contents of these registers will be restored.

D is the FWA of the right-hend side.

E is the FWA of a set of B single-register floating-point numbers,

the i-th number being an estimate of the meXimum megnitude of

error in any element of the i-th row of the coefficient matrix,

Thess numbers are stored in every second register, and are

undisturbed.

ob. In addition to thé registers mentioned above, the Jn+3 registers following

the coefficient metrix are destroyed, COMMON through COMMON+7 is required,

Dc. Error stops may
SAVET +2
SAVEA +2
CORR +2
SAVEM +2
SAVEC +2

ES

occur in the following locations:

Two tries feiled to produce a readable record on MT-NINE

nn
nn

nn


wid

NOCON Iteration wild diverge (ill-conditioned matrix)
RESTT 2 Two attempts to read MT=NINE failed

DNEXT 7 LE

DNEX1 4 a

The following additionel error indications ere provided:
Sense light 1 on at exit means that the routine, which slakes part of
ite thirst for temporary storage by writing over itself, has failed b
return to ash condition. DMEBE will contain HTR O.
Sense light 2 on at exit mesns that the possible error in sone element
of the solution vector is grester than the megnitude of the elsment.
ADDOV, MULTO end DIVCK also contain error stops.
The error return indicates:
a, With AC=20, a loss of bits in core memory.

|

1

b. With AC non-zero, an overflow in the double-precision arithmetic,

? lta A nin)
5de On normal return, the solution vector is stored in D, register ORT and Re |
every second register following contain integers representing the app-
poximete number of significent binery digits in each elemént of the
solution vector. A is the next record on MT-NINE.
6. Constants available start at LO, and run to DNEXT. These include
0, 1, 2, 1 floating, etc.
7. This routine wes tested on the 107X 10. segment of the infamous Hilbert

Matrix, octal cards for which ere included | Ate (ppt 3.


APPENRIX I
sOUTS TAPE WRITING ROUTINE
Calling Sequence: TSX BOUTS, 4
PZE N,O, FWA
Error Return
SLW (normal return)
This routine writes the block of N words starting et FWA on MT-NINE

and computes the CAD checksum, Tape is then backspaced and reread to

check for a legible record, Fabdlure of the check causes & second writing

end check, failure of which causes error return. On normal return, CAD

checksum is in AC to be stored for lster use with BLIN5, boLey | 0 dod,

gel.

BLIND TAPE READING ROUTINE
Calling Sequence: CAL (pickup checksum for this block)

TSX BLIND, 4

PZE N,O0,FWA

Error Return

Normel Return
Thie routine reads the next block of N words from MT-NINE into core memory
starting at location FWA. A CAD'checksum is compared with the contents of AQ
at entry, On disagreement, tape is besckspaced end s second cttempt 2t reesd-
ing is mede, Failure of this attempt results in an error return, Presence

of an end-of-file or end-of-record before N words are read also initiates the

Nd ; ’
error procedure. J-oley | au legirmd,


APPENDIX II

ADDOV ~~ Check lights after fdoating-point addition,
Calling Sequence: FAD
TSX ADDOV, 4
If lights indicete an overflow, error stop occurs et ADDOVY 4, on AC

underflow, AC is set to Zero

MULTO Check lights after floating-point multiplication
Cellincs Sequence: FMP
T8X MULTO, 4

Overflow causee error stop in MULTOY3 or MULTOA 6. AC underflow gives AC Zero,

DIVCK Check lights efter floating-point division
Calling Sequences FDP
I3X DIVCK, 4
Divide check light causes error stop in DIVCK+1. MQ set to zero on MQ under-

flow. MQ overflow causes error stop in DIVOK 414,

All routinee normally return to XA,


APPENDIX III

ONEXT Solve matrix equation AX® bd', when Ax: d has been solved dy MIDPME.
routine provides a large saving in time when solving for & new
hand side, calling sequence is same as for MIDFNE except that X must

»%e Results, error stops, ete. sre 211 the sare &s MIDPME.

~N .- ee. » > NPR a .

€« MIDFNE writes five records on NI-NINE: @, &,D, N, I-MA. D is the first
ions of NIDMS, the other letters ere explained in the main writeup
Upon exit from DME, MT-NINT is positioned to resd A ss the next bacord.

this is for convenience of user. who Bay want to read in A by BLINS; the

reads in I-NA and starts iterating, The paris of NIDPAE thet form NM ang
*heex I-AN are skipped, thus SRVing considerable time. DNEXY restores C on
exit, dut since it uses the block written dy MIDRIE. changes in C between
use

0 NIDPME and DNEXT will de lost.
EE ————————————————


—

al
—————"

APPENDIX TE

MIHIL1O Hilbert Matrix of order 10, double-precision in sense of RS005,
These cards contain the segment of order ten of the Hilbert metrix, in the
form of RS005 double-precision numbers, correctly rounded to 18 octal digits.
They are designed to save the next guy the exercise in decimal-to-octal
conversion this writer undertook, Note that if the least-significant perts
of the metrix are sorted out for 8ingle-precision work, the remaining num-

“
bers imey be incorrectly rounded in a number of cases,


