It is evident that some form of multi-channel analyzer or computer would
be helpful in this project, to say the least. Analyzers for bioelectric potentials
have been developed by others (2-L), but we decided to design our own to suit the
particular requirements of the method described. In addition, we wished to use a
different type of data display. A block diagram of the analyzer is shown in Figure
2. Twenty circumferential leads are connected to individual balanced preamplifiers.
The amplified signals are then applied to an electronic commutator with a scanning
rate of 1 KC or a sampling rate of 20 KCe A 20 KC crystal-controlled master oscillator
is used to drive the commutator. The composite commutator output is applied to a
broadband amplifier and thence to an FM tape-recorder (Ampex FR-1100). A 2nd transe
pert is used in order to get a playback-to-record ratio of 1/128, The data is then
sufficiently slowed down so that it car be applied to a cathode-ray oscilloscope
and photograpneds Our final result then consists of 1000 graphs per second of poten-
tial as a function of electrode distance. These graphs can&ot only be used in de-
termining the resultant dipole moment, but also show cdetails of the heart's electrical
activity as it appears on the chest wall., KEventually we hope to add circuits which
will multiply the potentials by the contour factor, such as €25 € and sin €, and
also perform the integrations. The front end of this system is similar to a telemetry
system. The main cifference, however, is that our final result is the amplified and
filtered signal output from the commutator; we have no need to recover the original
signals fron. each electrode.

The commutator consists of 20 transmission gates (5) each of which is
controlled by a transistor binary. The binaries are connected in a ring in such a
way that only one gate is open to transmission at a time. The input signal is
connected through the open gate to a common line and applied to the broadband ampli-
fier. Each trigger applied through the switching stage causes the open gate

condition to move sequentially from gate to gate. The unit is essentially a transis-