COPY -.-

Professor Joha Carr
Department of Mathematics
University of Michigan

Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Professor Carr:

Professor Philip Morse has suggested that I write to you about
the proposal that a series of educational television programs be
produced at M.I,T. about computers. The idea has been discussed
from time to time for more than a year, but no firm, detailed plan
has been worked out.

 

WGBH, the Boston educational TV and FM station, suggested
in April, 1957, that a graat of $100, 000 be requested from the Edu-
cational Television and Radio Center at 2320 Washtenaw Avenue, in
Ann Arbor, for the production of a series of 20 hal-hour programs.
These would be filmed in the WGBH studios in Cambridge for distri-
bution to educational TV stations throughout the country.

Of this sum, $80, 000 would be allotted to WGBH for production
costs, and $20, 000 to M.1.T. for the services of an authority who
would serve as moderator and assume responsibility for the content
of the programs, for honorariums to his guests, and for art work,
props, writing assistance, etc.

The series as then envisioned would review the rapid development
of high-speed computers, with particular emphasis on the digital
machines, introduce viewers to the operations of such machines, and
point out both their limitations and potentialities. It would cover
various uses of the computers both in industry and science, some
aspects of information theory and cybernetics, and stress both


. COPY

scientific and social implications of high-speed compuation.

Professor Carr

Representatives of the Ann Arbor center for educational TV
have repeatedly expressed interest in receiving a definite proposal
along these lines that would include an outline of the subject matter, a
list of prospective guests, and indications of the format to be followed.
We have discussed the preparation of such a presentation with a good
many people in the M.I.T. Computation Center and Lincoln Laboratory,
and with local representatives of the International Business Machines
Corp., and have received many good suggestions. But no one has had
time to organize the material and follow up these suggestions. Nor
have we succeeded thus far in finding a person who is competent and
available to assume respousibility for this series if a grant to produce
it is obtained.

Mr. Theodore Sherbura, who was formerly with WGBH, is now a
program coordinator in the Ann Arbor educational TV center and will
recall clearly the early discussions of this idea here. You might find
it helpful to have a taik with him if there is a possibility that you would
be interested in associating yourself with such a project.

We believe that there are excellent facilities in Cambridge and the
immediate vicinity for the production of a truly educational series of
television programs about computers, and all of the many authorities
here with whom we have talked have been sympathetic with the idea
and willing to cooperate.

Professor Morse recommends you highly as a person who could carry
out such a project in a way that would please both scholars and the audi-
ences for educational TV programs, and I hope very much that you will
find this suggestion attractive. We would be most grateful for some
indication of your reaction as early as convenient.

With best wishes,

Sincerely yours,

Volta Torrey

VI/ma

cC to David Davis
Professor Morse «"
Ted Sherburn


