Page 2.

/

For example, Hig.l shows the geometric path in a simple 3 x 4
rectangular design, with sides A, B, ¢, D, B, F, the solid dark line
being the central ray from the transmi%t
colored lines the upper and lower limits

er to receiver and the dashed

 

Hige 2 Sound Beam Path extendéd in Image space to Show upper and lower
limits of Sound Beams.

Fig.2 shows the sound beam path extended in g straight line in
image space with the upper and lower limits from the transmitter. The
upper and lower limits of each reflection surface will be determ&ned by
the igtersection points with ed jacent facets, and are labeled H. 192 gng
H,Bottom, These limits determine the effective apertures of thi delay
line, and how much of the energy Originally directed toward the receiver
will reach it. Any energy striking an adjacent facet will not only be
directed away from the main image at position 6, but can follow an alt-
ernative path to another imefe of the receiver, such as C at HoB where
a. secondary signal may appear. These secondary signals appeaer at times
proportional to the distances from the transmitter on the image space
diagram and their amplitude relative to the main signal always limits
the performance availgble, While the total energy lost in these side
reflections is very small, and may be less than 5% 0f that received at
the mein delay, a single secondary image of 1% is not tolerable in pres-
ent redar applications.

Hence, the problem of optimizing the shape of g delay line for g
given design consists of adjusting the apertures so that the minimum
limits either in the top or bottom series has the maXimum possible value.

The procedure for ensuring that the ad justment of one dimension to
remove one limit does not allow manother point to decresse below the
danger value is as foldlows:

The indersection points of the facets on either side of the
reflection facets are determined from analytiec geometry, and
a system of nearly linear simultaneous equations obtained
involving the distances R, from a common center to the facets
A, B;-C, eto., and constagt coefficients A; s which are trig-
onometric functions of the angles between adjacent facets and
the angles of incidence in Fig.2.