S T
Ml Sheted G

26 February 1960

 

From: Walter F. Freiberger, Brown University
To: Members of the Organizing Committee
Subject: The National Conference of Computing Center Directors

The American Mathematical Society has been informed unofficially
that their application dated January 1, 1960 to the National
Science Foundation for support of a conference for directors of
computing laboratories has been approved, I am sending this
circular to you to acquaint you with these and other developments
and }g request your collaboration in assuring the success of our
meeting,

1. Time and Place. The most suitable time would seem to be the
last week in May or the first week in June, but the question of
the place is as yet wide open., A number of possibilities is
being explored and we should make a decision within the next two
weeks, Please let me know if you have any suggestions.

2, Invitations. It would seem that we can pay travel and at
least part of per diem expenses for 60 people. We propose to
invite 75 directors at first, and others as refusals come in,

We shall ask people invited whether they need financial support
or whether they can pay out of travel funds or contracts, hoping
to be able to stretch our funds in this manner as far as possible,
We shall also ask people to indicate in their answers to our
invitation in which of the five subsections they are most inter-
ested and wish to take part, so that the Chairmen of the respec-
tive panels will know in advance whom to expect and be able to
contact some of the participants beforehand,

3. Organization of Meeting. We expect the meeting to last
three days. It would be opened by introductory remarks from

Professor Morse and then be briefly addressed by the Chairmen

of the five sections, At this opening plenary session every
participant will be able to voice his opinion on matters apper-
taining to all subjects and not only the one he had previously
chosen, This should give the individual sections enough material
to work on during their own sessions the next day. On this
second day the sections will meet privately and prepare recom-
mendations to be discussed at the final plenary session on the
third day. On the final day the Chairmen of the five sections
will present thelr conclusions to the full meeting. The dis-
cussion of these conclusions will, we hope, lead to firm recom-
mendations to be embodied in the conference report. The group
drafting this final report should have an opportunity to meet and
discuss its final form on the afternoon or evening of the third
daye