~A, INC.

A%kez.. AN -n—a,.p} PAnablyts, artment of Mathematics
3?-v W Gl fio G5 Uil York University
£ s ';’ 43 By T n

-v:u ;.\,_ -&

PR 11 15, 196k
New Yok 59, Eau Vork 4

VAV 4V 4V 4V 4 4 4 4

 

A speclal issue of the MONTHLY is being planned, with the purpose
of informing its readers of the tremendous sdvances brought about in recent
years by the large fast computers.

An outline is enclosed. We hope that each paper may be addressed
to the general reader; he may be identified for our purposes as a bright
undergraduate major in mathematics. The goal of each paper is to give the
reader a penetrating insight into the ideas and processes mentioned in the
title. ©Some technicalities will be necessary,of course, but a shrewdly
chosen tree may suggest the character of the forest we are trying to sketch.

You are known to be an expert in the topic against which your name
appears, and to be a skillful expository writer. We hope that you will be
willing to address a paper on this topic to our large readership.

While papers will naturally vary in length, we hope that for will
exceed 10 double-spaced 8 1/2 x 11" pages. Please word the title exactly
as you wish it to be.

If all papers are submitted by July 31 we should be able to
publish the special issue in December or January.

Anyone preferring to submit an outline or an abstract before
actually writing his paper is assured of a prompt response by this office.

If you wish to treat some topic other than the one proposed, or
an additional topic, please be kind enough to indicate your preference.

I should add that in the preparation of this issue I am enjoying
the active collaboration of Jack Heller, P. D. Lax, D. H. Lehmer, and
R. D. Richtmyer. FEach has agreed to treat the topic coupled with his name
in the outline.

We shall all be greatly pleased if you find it possible to make
this valuable contribution to the mathematical community. The favor of a
prompt response will be appreciated.

Yours very truly,

AT b F. A. Ficken

—— L