July 13, 1959

National Seclence Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthur:

This is In the nature of a progress report cenceruing
a possible Conference of Directors of university computing
centers, about which I wrote you carly last apring.

After I wrote you I wrote Uo about a dogen directors
of the larger university centers asking for their reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
genter directors. The answers I received were nearly unsnimous.
They were not enthusiastic about another permanent organization
in the computer field. They agreed there are a number of probe
lems peculiar to university computing senters whieh ought to be
talked over in comuon from time to tive. They wondered if
special meoctings could be called about the time of an ACM or
Joint Computer Conference or whethar one or two single confor
ences would not accomplish what was needed. Several of the
letters mentloned specific probleme of interest, such as the
problem of financing the computing center while gtill keeping
it avallable for students and faculty, alse the questions of
academic standards and the status of esearch on machines,

 

 

Last month I attended a confarence galled by IBM at
Poughlteepale for the directors of university computing centers
using IBM eguipment. About 30 of the 05 khown dirsctors of cole
iege computing centers were there, mostly directors of centers
having 650%s. We had an evening scosion concerning this same
problem. There again, the feeling wos thot 1t was premature to
talk about za permenent organization. However, I found a much
greater necd for general discussion ond mutual agreement on
various matters among thls group which represented the smaller
and newer computing centers rather than the representatives of
older and larger genbters to whom I had written before. This
group felt the need of support for thelr plang and sugpestions
for wnat ave wige and unwise means of financing and help in
determining procedures and academic standards. After an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planning group with


Dr. Grad «2a July 13, 1959

myself as chalmman, Professor Walter Freiberger of the Depart-
ment of lathematles at Brown University as secretary, and other
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next year or two it would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to
college computing centers. The discussions could focus around
four general areass

1. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "sold" and
vhat fraction should be free?

2. Computer-criented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of machines?
What are the cppertunities for theses in these fields, how are
such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted
on the basls of these theses?

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be
offered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of octher appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual
content, intimately involving computing machines, are being
given and in vhat departments?

4. Computing seyvice to undversity departments: Whe in the
college should be given "free time"? What priority system can
be get up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between free and paying users? Uhat are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory committees to administer such a
servige program?

It was felt that a conference on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would resuls
in a report cwbodyling suggestions and matual agreenénts on these
matters, would be of very great help to many directors of college
computing centers, particularly those just beginning or planning
te begin. It would secm to me that NSF would also be interested
in the results of such a conference. Certainly the question of
how college computing centers fit into thelr academic structure
an@ how they can help more completely to cducate scientists and
engineers is something which has been a subject of discussion in
various parts of NSF to my knowledge. My question to you, there
fore, is an exploratory onc: Is NST interested in such a confer
ence? Ig it intercsted enough to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, according to
the latest ligt of Professor Reeves of Ohio State. We had thought


«Ce July 13, 1950

 

rectors, so that there robabl
would be between 40 ang 50 attending, The tortor woula be

available to NSF ip SC desired, then the editing, preparing and
Publication of this report would nced to be financed. My letter
at present is just to sce if NSF is likely to be interested in
Buch a conference » if they would de willing to finance some part
of it ang, if £0, what we should do about it next. I will be
away in Europe during August and the first part of September so
I will not be on hand at the meeting mentioned in the enclosed
notice. If you have questions which should be brought up to
chis meating, I suggest you send them to Professor Freiberger.
In any sase, I will be back by September 10 and would be glad to
heay your comments then op before I leave on August 5, I think
it 1s about time that this growing field of university computer
research, education and service be discussed in tems of its
broader implications and necessities, I hope you agree,

Yours,

Philip \ Morse

Director

PMiTe luh


