~~

i

Administrative Memorandum A-} Page 1 of 10

M.I.T. Computation Center
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts
Rl Date: October 27, 1956
From: Dr. Frank M. Verzuh

Subject: JOB DESCRIPTION FOR COMPUTATION CENTER PERSONNEL

Introduction

The purpose of this memorandum is to enumerate the principal categories

of non-staff and staff personnel positions and to provide the job description of

each. The job descriptions presented in this memorandum must of necessity be
somewhat general. On the other hand, it is hoped that they are sufficiently detailed
to asgist in the actual procurement of personnel to fill the respective positions.

An attempt has been made to establish the minimum starting requirements for
the various positions. However,every effort should be made to obtain candidates whose
qualifications exceed the minimum requirements. 2

In order to assist the Personnel Office in their job of weeding and selecting
candidates for interviews at the Computation Center, there are at least Five {5)
general qualifications which should be examined prior to arrangement of an interview
with the Computation Center Personnel Officer. These general qualifications are:

i. Educational background,

2. Natural ability and aptitude,
3. Previous experience,

4. Technical skills,

5. Demonstrated compatibility -- ability to work with others,
teamwork, etc.,

¢. Physical appeargnce.

The exact definition of the above five qualifications varies with the particular job
description involved. Hence, succeeding sections of this report will clarify the
meaning of these terms. hs

There are many types of jobs available in the M.I.T. Computation Center. The
following list includes the principal ones:

1. Administrative personnel - personnel officer, project supervisor,

2. Office personnel - secretary, clerk, typists,

3. Tape Room —- clerk, flexoWriter operator, supervisor, etc.,

4. Machine Operators - WWI computer operator, photographer, supwrvisor,
2. IBM Card Punch operator - key punch operator


b=} Page 2 of 10

6. IBM Electronic Accounting Machine operator - EAM machine operator,

7. IBM Machine Room supervisor - EAM supervisor,

8. EDPM Coder ~- trzinee programmer,

9. Electronic Dats Processing Machine Programmex - professional programmer,

0. Electronic Data Processing Machine Analyst - numerical analyst and
skilled programmer,

il, Electronic Data Processing Machine console operator - G50, 704, or
705 console operator, )

12. Electronic Data Processing Machine assistant operator - assistant
console and peripheral equipment operator.

Succeeding sections of this memorandum contain one-page Job descriptions of the
various positions available in the M.I.T. Computation Center. Since some of these

are quite standard -- clerical, typist, secretarial, etc., no attempt will be made
to describe these particular poaitions, However, those positions peculiar to the

Computation Center will he described in detail,
' 7 H/
i
J

F. M. Verzuh

I — |


M.I.T. Computation Center Page 3 of 10

Title of Position: IBM CARD PUNCH OPERATOR

TESIEIEY SERENE WTI

DUTIES

1. Card Punching: transcribes numeric or alphanumeric data onto punched cards by

operating the Type Oll, 024, or 026 Card Punch Machines, By means of the cand
punch machine, the original data is converted from the source document into holes |
in an IBM card. This is a manuel operation in which the operator reads the
manuscript and, by striking appropriate keys, converts the information into punched
holes in the card. This operation is somewhat more automatic than that accomplished
by a typist employing the touch system since the machine feeds, positions, and
ejects the cards automatically. The operator merely concentrates on striking the
corredt key at the right time.

Card Verifying: to insure the accuracy of the key punching, a separate machine is
available to check the accuracy of the work. This machine is called a Verifier.
The operation of this machine is very similar to the key punch (>hysical outward
appearances are almost identical) and a key punch operator is expected to operate
the Verifier. A Type 056 Verifier is used in this office to check the accuracy of
the original key punching. Usually, a second operator verifies the key punching by
depressing the keys of the Verifier while reading from the original source data.
This is basically the same type of operation as typing or operating the card punch,

Performance: 2a successful key punch operator is one who can achieve high speeds

of operation and at the same time maintain a reasonable degree of accuracy. High
accuracy naturally will minimize the amount of error-correction effort which must be
expended, As a matter of fact, in certain operations the need for verifying is
eliminated whan avisual check of the listed results is made. This implies that
certain key punch operators soon learn to list cards on the IBM Tabulator -- merely

‘a push-button operation requiring no knowlwdge of the Tabulator, wiring, operation,

etc. These results are listed and visually inspected for accuracy. (Note: not

all jobs can be handled in this manner.) The important point here is that the key
punch operator has a definite responsibility for the accuracy of her work. Obviously
all succedding machine operations will be of no value if the input key punched
material is in error! Thus a high degree of accuracy is essential in the card
preparation stages of any EDFM operation.

QUALIFICATIONS

1.

Educational Background: high school education or equivalent is a prerequisite.

Natural Ability and Aptitude: a high degree of manual dexterity is desirable in
this job and, of course, noymal or corrected vision of 20-20 is required.

Previous Experience: knowledge of typing is helpful but not an essential pre-
reguizgite for this position.

Technical Skillls: an experienced card punch operator may qualify for advanced
salary based on proven previous performance -- a proficient card punch operator
will average 10,000 key strokes per hour.

Compatibility: because the work is done on an individual basis, compatibilityis
not of prime importance. On the other hand, there is definite need to be able to
receive work, complete the assignment, and release the product in a graceful and
friendly manner. Good teamwork is essential.

Physical Appearance: A well-groomed appearance is desirable.


M.I.T. Computation Center ~ Page 4 of 10

Title of Position: ELECTRONIC ACCOUNTING MACHINE (EAM) OPERATOR

 

DUTIES
The duties include the following:

1. Interpreting cards,
2. Sorting cards,

3. Listing cards,

4. Reproducing cards,

5. Selecting, matching, merging, and checking cards,
6. Calculating results.

The above operations have been mechanized on a functional vasis by special IBM machines
known as Interpreters, Sorters, Printers, Reproducers, Collators, and Calculators,
respectively. Depending on the size of the office, the degree of specialization of
machine operations varies considerably. For example, a large office may have multiple
units identified as the Key Punch Unit, the Sorter Unit, the Reproducer and Tabulator
Unit, and the Collator and Calculator Unit, respectively. In the M.I.¥. Computation
Center, however, the size of the EAM Unit is such that EAM operations are usually
limited to a two-machine-of-a-type.. As a result, the EAM operators are expected to be
more versatile and able to operate various machines.

Depending upon the type of work flow within the BAM office, there may be more or less
need for changing of control panel wiring on certain machines. Specifically, in the
operation of a routine nature -- payroll, registrar, bursar -- the need for changing
set ups ig limited. On the other hand, scientific computation and research demands

all skills of machine operators since many different control panels must be wired,
used cccasionally, and dismantled.

QUALIFICATIONS
1. Bducational Background: high school education or equivalent is required.

2. Natural Ability and Aptidude: since a machine operator is handling a large number
of cards, a certain amount of manual dexterity is required. Specifically, cards
must not be dropped, mishandled, or abused.

3. Previous Experience: it is possible to hire a completely inexperienced individual
and send him to special IBi-offered courses of instruction on machine operation and
machine wiring, respectively Obviously previous EAM experience is extremely
valuable since a proficient knowledge of wiring can only be obtain by actual
experience. The rate. of pay, of course, is governed accordingly.

4, Technical Skills: a top-notch EAM operator is capable of wiring the following EAM
machines: a) Interpreter Type 552, b) Reproducer Types 513, 514, 519, 526, and
928, c¢) Tabulator Types 402, 403, 405, 407, dd) Collator Types 077 and 089,

e) Calculator Types 602, 604, G07, Caru-Prosrammed Calculator, and 650 Magnetic
Drum Calculator.

5S. Compatibility: it is extremely important that EAM machine operators be able to get
along with their fellow workers. Teamwork is essential since common machines are
used and continual ''rubbing of shoulders’ is a necessary part of this operation.

6. Physical Appearance: a well-groomed individual is likely to produce geod work,
since tabuleting work is a precise and exacting operation.


Title of Position: JBM MACHINE ROCM SUPERVISOR

DUTIES \ :

1. Scheduling: machine room supervisor is responsible for scheduling work flow
through the machines -- thig involves scheduling of machines as well as personnel.

2. Procedures Manual: machine room supervisor ig responsible for the preparation
and maintenance of thres levels of manuals: a) general office manual, b) super-
visor's manual, c) operator Smanual, respectively.

3. Job Instruction: preparation of the necessary problem instruction sheets for
individual jobs. : : : 3

4, New Systems: develops new applications and associated machine procedures.

5. Progress Reports: establishes and maintains g& record of the progress showing tine
spent and progress to date or 211 jobs.

6. Work Accuracy: he is responsible for checking and insuring the accuracy of the
work produced in his group.

QUALIFICATIONS

1. Educational Background: high school education ox equivalent is required.

2. Natural Ability and Aptitude: ability to get along with people, thus insuring a
high output work level.

3. Previous Experience: supervision of previous Ef groups involving all types of EAM
machines is a prerequisite.

4. Technical Skills: an intimate knowledge of wiring all EAM machines is desirable.

5. Compatibility: since EAM installation is basically a service bureau for other
groups, it is important that the supervisor be abie to contact employees of various
other departments. Good relations between the EAM office and other groups
is important. :

6. Physical Appearance: a well-groomed physical appearance ig an essential reguiremsnt

M.I1.T. Computation Center Page 5 of 10

for this position.


~ wqitle of Position:

M.I.T. Computation Center Page 6 of 10

ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE EROGRAMMER

DESCRIPTION

There are several grades of programmers in an electronic data processing imstallation.
The highest or Grade I programmer is reforved to as a senior or professional programmer.
This person may program the most difficult problems or he may formulate block diagrams
and flow charts from which others may write the instructions or machine code. The
lower or second-grade position is usually refereed to as a ‘programmer’. The job

description for programmer is the same as for the prefessional programmer except for
the degree of competence,

A third-grade level of programmer may be called = ''trainee programmer ov coder’ .

This person usually works under the direct supervision of a programmer or a professional
programmer, respectively. He ig expected to write the actual machine instruction Ior

2 progyvam from the block diagram prepared by the professional programmer

DUTIES

1. Assists in the preparation of the methematical statement or systems study of the
overall problem.

2. Prepares the logical diagrams of the proposed EDF procedure.

3, Assists in the review of the logic ~~ this involves a careful study of present and
proposed procedures with all those currently involved in the present operation.

4, Prepares a machine block diagram which is a statement of the solution of the
approved logical diagram expressed in machine language.

5. @Qodes the procedures in the machine language. In effect, expresses the solution
of the problem in the particular machine language under consideration.

6. Prepares a test solution which is used in checking the program on an EDFM machine,
7. Performs the actual machine testing of the EDF program on the machine.

8. Prepaves a complete write-up of the problem -- including machine operating
instructions, a list of machine stop codes, and an explicit set of instructions
for emergency operxaticnus.

QUALIFICATIONS

1. Educational Background: high school education or eguivalent. Since programming
is a precise and logical operation, a college education and a knowledge of
mathematics is desirable; However, it is nct essential. IEAM experience is helpful
but not esseatial.

2. Hatuzal Ability and Aptitude: a number of aptitude tests heave been developed to
measure the lildibood of sucesss in the programming f£leld. A suitable aptitude
test will he used to select candidates in this field.


} be .

6.

7.

Previous Experience:

1

Page 7 of 10

 

ow experience has revealed that there are certain professional
8 that are potential sources fo good programmers. Graduates of certain

colleges, particularly those teaching numerical analysis in the udergraduate

Curriculum, have Proven to be an excellent source of programmers,

Technical Skills: a training in EAM equipment is desirable but not essential.

Compatibility: the need to get along with other individuals outside the EDFM
GEOUp . is strongly dependent on the mode of operation. In 2 closed-shop”
brogramning operation the programmer accepts a problem statement from the
originator and carries through the entire analysis, programming, coding, and
machine solution. I¢ is, therefore, important that a closed-shop programmer
be able to get along with the Problem originator.

Accuracy: the preparation of machine programs is a costly and expensive operation.
Obviously a person who can write accurate machine instructions is extremely
valuable. For example, a top-notch programmer recently prepared a program of
6,000 instructions in 34 hours =e containing only 1 error. Accuracy is most
important! : 107 pA

A, ee

Physical Appearance: the need for attractive appearance is ossential,

TRAINING PERIOD

A complete course in the programming field will require a minimum of six (6) intensive
weeks in a training course followed by 4-6 months of actual programming experience
before one obtains any degree of proficiency.

10/27/56


M.X.T. Computation Center Page 8 of 10

Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING ANALYST

DESCRIPTION

An EDP analyst may have a different background depending upon the particular EDFM
operation. For example, if the EDPM operation is primarily one of data processing,
the analyst should be skilled in methods and procedures, work flow methods, flow
charting techniques, time motion studies, €&c. On the other hand, a systems analyst

in a scientific computing center should be well versed in mathematics and numerical
analysis.

DUTIES

The duties are similar to those of the programmer except that the analyst is expected
to delve more deeply into the basic mathematical statement —-- performing certain
mathematical researches and developing suitable numerical methods for sclution.

QUALIFICATIONS

The qualifications are identical to those of a programmer except that more emphasis
is given to the basic sciences. Specifically, a knowledge of numerical analysis,
finite differences, statistical methods, probability theory, operations research,
methods and procedures, etc.


M.I.T. Computation Center

Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE CONSOLE OFERATOR

DUTIES

 

The console operator operates the Electronic D
ata Processing Machine (EDPM) including
Xie central processing unit (CPU), the console » and all "on-line equipment', such as
© magnetic tape units, magnetic drum unit, card reader, card punch, and the line

printer, respectively. He operates the CPU and associated equipment from the
operator console,

He must recognize the condition of the machine from the display of lights on the
console and thus interpret the reason for any stoppages which occur during normal
machine processing. He must be able to take immediate action based om his

interpretation of machine stoppage. He keeps a recoxd of all stops and causes for
later diagnosis.

He is in charge of the EDFM operators specifying which units are to be used, which
magnetic tapes are involved, how vesulis are to be recorded, etc. Since the 700 series
machines are extremely expensive devices (rental costs average approximately
$12/minute), it is extremely important that the console operator be a qualified man.

QUALIFICATIONS | |
1. Rducational Background: 'ligh school education.or equivalent is essential,

2. Natural Ability and Aptidude: ability to get slong with people and direct the
work of others is essential. He must make rapid decisions since machine time is
expensive.

3. Previous Experience: a knowledge of EAM has proven to be extremely helpful.
it is estimated thet a minimum of three months is required to train a good
console operator.

4. Technical Skills: experience has shown that electronic technicians, EAM machine
operators, etc., develop into excellent EDFM console operators.

5, Compatibility: since the EDFN console operator is in charge of all machine
operations, it is imperative that he be able to get along with various programmers,
and other machine users. Depending on the mode of operation, his contacts may be
with a single scheduler-dispaticher or with many company employees: Personal
compatibility requirements will vary accordingly. :

Physical Appearance: a well-groomed appearance ig desirable, particulerly in the
#.%.T. Computation Center where the equipment will be of a "showplace" character.

7. Aceurscy: Errors are extremely costly resulting in major fingncial losses to
the company. Hence, they should be minimized.


Bor M.I.7, Computation Center

a
Ed

 
 

Page 10 of jp

 

. r mg : | t :
‘Title of Position ELECTRONIC ATA PROCESSING YACHINE ASSISTANT OPERATOR

QUALIFICATIONS
—— AS SANS

The Qualifications of the assistant OPerator are the Same as those for the congole
Operator,


