Extension of NSF G2940 Page 8

Enelosure B, Continued

Dr. Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 1946, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1940.
In this capacity he has had considerable experlence with the
utilization of various analogue computing equipment - differential
analyzers, etc., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type TO4. He recelved
a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Sc.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952, None of his salary will be charged to the Project. .

 

 

 

        

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at
MIT since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1940.
He is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers"
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematies" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis" (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind Pro-
gramming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and will head the programming research group
in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in Electrical
Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate work in
Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing hils doctor's
thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience in the use
of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equlipment and with
Whirlwind I. . Hifrsetaoy oflhibesshargediid beecBaxpgedtto the
Project. & Qoo 9

Dr. F. J. Corbatd, whose primary responsibility will be the
administration and supervision of the IBM research assistantship
and assoclateship program of the 23 New England colleges at the
Center, will also carry out research and do consulting on research
problems, especlally in the physical sciences. He received a B.S.
in Physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1950 and
a Ph.D. in theoretical solid state physics research at MIT in 1956.
During 1951-56 he was a research assistant in machine computation
and numerical analysis at MIT and is now a Research Assoclate at
the Center. Part of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computatilon
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Commlittee on
the cooperative program of the Center will be avallable for
advice and cooperation. From time to time, 1if one of them can
supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may be
charged to the Project.