¥.

/Z, Morse DRAFT

Proposal for Development of a Real-Time Computation Facility

Ob jective: The purpose of this proposal is to obtain support
for the research and development of a feasible
real time (on-line) computation system, time
shared among many remote users. The system, cen-
tered around a large general purpose computer,
would be designed to meet the needs of a diverse
research and educational activity; 1t would take
advantage of the possibilities of immedlate ac-
cess computation using specialized remote input-
output devices as an adjunct to human thought and
learning.

Summary

Computers and computation systems have yet to explolt
many considerable advantages that may be realized with a very
closely coupled human reasoning - machine information proces-
sing system. |

This 1s particularly the case ln very large information
processing problems such as large systems of non-linear par-
tial differential equations, heuristic programs, etc. where
properly applied human facllltles of insight, pattern recog-
nition, reasoning, etc. may be the only feasible way of dil-
recting an otherwise "overwhelmed" computer whose speed and
capacity are as yet no match for a large combinatorial problem.

To make such a mode of usage a workable reallty, existing

computers must be modified to allow time-sharing amnong many
users.

Such system modification include the addltion of backup
random access memories, and an "exchange" for the dispatch of
messages to and from the remote devices. Special input-output
devices and appropriate languages must be developed to bridge


Page 2.

the communication gap between man and machine.

Of no less importance are questions of internal schedul-
ing of the computer among many users, and the development of
programming systems to implement the scheduling, access,
translation and running of the many diverse user programs.

The ground work for the proposed research ls well es-
tablished at the M.I.T. Computation Center, which has already
had experience in developing prototype techniques for an IBM
704 system.

It 18 expected that a grant of approximately $51,000 for
the first year and $76,000 for the second year will be suffi-
cient for the manpower requirement for research and develop-
ment of a feasible system utilizing an IBM 7090 computer.
Such funding will cover the development of prototype equip-
ment, not the installation of the full scale system.

Background

The normal mode of computer usage, particularly with the
larger installations, has been to physically separate the ma-
chinery from the man who intends to use it; the researcher is
kept from the research tool; the programmer from the running
ofhis program. In the past this has made good sense. After
all, a computer's time can be quite expensive, and if there ar
a large number of people who need 1lts services, then lt can
serve them far more efficiently 1f they state clearly exactly
what they want in advance, and their requests (programs) are
put in with a batch of similar requests to be serviced at the
earliest moment. Further, there seemed to be no compelling
reason why the user should need to get any closer to the equip-
ment. For that matter even if the need could be proved, there
was no feasible way to allow him (plus many others llke him)
to have such an immediate access and association wlthout a
hopeless loss in efficiency of the computational system.


Page 3.

In part, this philosophy stemmed from the belief that al-
most any problem that could be stated or programmed could be
solved by a computer without any further outside assistance.

Almost none of the above generalizations are true today.
As will be shown, there are very compelling reasons for bring-
ing a computer and the human user into much closer contact.
There 18 every reason to believe that it will result ln a more
efficient system; the latest generation of computers can be
multiprogrammed and time-shared among many different simulta-
neous users; and there is a large class of computer usage that
1s impossilble in any other mode than real time.

There are still a host of research and development prob-
lems to be solved involving systems, input-output devices, and
computer programming before a large machine can be effectively
used in such a manner, but the goal is within reach. The ob-
ject of the proposed research program is to bring it about.
Let us examine more carefully the basic needs that are to be
served by the proposed system.

Computer Usage Problems
a. Artificial Intelligence

The most compelling reason for achieving a closer
contact and cooperation between human and machine is that there
1s a growing class of problems that cannot be handled effective-
ly by either alone. Work in "Artificial Intelligence", i.e.
abstract problem solving by machine is tending in the direction
of heuristic programming; that is, instead of seeking to solve
combinatorial problems exhaustively (an impossible task in most
cases of interest) "common sense" or heuristic techniques for
avolding the exploration of the majority of possible solutions

to a problem Solving situation are being developed. In all but


Page I,

the most trivial cases, human judgment can be invaluable in
helping the machine to develop such "common sense" rules for
particular problems, if the human is in a position to "see what
1s going on” and to "get a feel for what is important”.

That 18 to say, that as of today at least, people are far
better equipped to draw on their past experience, recognize
abstract patterns, to generalize and to unify, whereas a ma-
chine is in a much better position to quickly seek out, oper-
ate upon, and turn out information. The best features of both
have yet to be effectively matched, as a closely meshed team.

bk. Large Problems

The latest generation of ultra high speed and capa-
bility computers was developed for the solution of problems in-
volving non-linear partial differential equations. Yet even
these machines are inadequate for several notable classes of
such problems, such as accurate weather forecasting, many-body
problems, design problems in systems involving non-linear func-
tions of space and time, etc. The approach to such problems
would seem to lie far more in the direction of developing bet-
ter approximate models (based on machine calculation) rather
than seeking ever-faster and ever-larger computers for solu-
tions that are essentially "brute force". Here too, on-line
human decision that can recognize patterns and generalize from
past experience can hasten the development of such "better"
models. Large problems, in addition, need to be time shared
because of themselves they tend to preempt computers for much
longer periods of time, and force other , perhaps qulte small
problems to wait.

c. Small Problems

Many straightforward, and quite trivial (from the
point of view of a large computer) computations are charact-
erized primarily by the need for an almost immediate answer,


Page 5.

or at worst a very short delay. Such problems requiring on
the order of 1-2 minutes of computer time suffer from the de-
lay which occurs when they are mixed in and batched with the
longer programs. This situation has led to the acquisition
of many additional small machines whose principal virtue is
their accessability, and whose defects are manifold, includ-
ing a limited computing capacity, much higher cost per compu-
tation, and a very limited repertiore of "higher" programming
languages.

These machines, however, have a very great appeal to
the average researcher. In part 1t 1s the same psychological
appeal that a self-service market has over an old fashioned
one-clerk store. In addition, however, a researcher knows
that he can make better use of an instrument if he works and
tries it out at close range so that he can "understand" it.
This attitude has produced sufficient progress in the past as
to be worthy of recognition.

d. Classroom Use as a Teaching Ald

There are many ideas and concepts in sclence and en-
gineering that when applied to anything beyond the most trivial
cases become so cumbersome to demonstrate that it 1s hard for
the student to gain an appreciation, and a "feel" for what is
happening. Many problems in field theory, dynamic systems, ma-
trix analysis, etc. share this barrier to an adequate under-
standing. On the other hand, 1t does not help if an instructor
merely presents a solution and says "Here it is."

The student feels uneasy if he cannot see how the
problem was formulated and solved, and gains a qulcker under-
standing 1f he can ask to see the effect of a parameter va-
riation, etc.

Since most problems of thls nature are Increasingly
being solved by computer, there seems every reason to include


Page 6.

such computer capability, as well as all it implies, as part
of ‘a lecture room.

There is a further possibility of substituting com-
puters for teachers and having the computer "lecture", analyze
answers, and in effect modify its course of teaching based
upon a much closer feedback from the student than is possible
in a large lecture class. Such techniques can be more ad-
equately evaluated with the proposed time sharing system.

e. Real-Time Experimentation

In some systems, a need 18 developing for on line
measurement, computation, and feedback in order to more direct-
ly determine cause and effect. This is becoming increasingly
important in the area of analysis of neurological signals in
living animals. In addition, there are synthesis problems of
importance, for example the composition of such art forms as
music, using a computer as a tremendously flexible musical in-
strument. For that matter, many other "design" problems, par-
ticularly large systems are also in the realm of being an
"art" and can be aided and made into more of a Science by si-
milar techniques. Here again, however, there is a need to
provide a close feedback between the human and the machine.

The problem areas cited above by no means exhaust
the range of application for real-time and time-shared com-
puter usage. They were chosen to bring out both the range of
diversity of problems where human decision and machine de-
cision can be mated very effectively to achieve far more than
elther by ltself.

Problems Raised by Real Time Computer Usage

Real time computer usage is worthwhile, but it raises a
host of problems that need solution. These problems lie gener-
ally in one of four areas, namely, systems, peripheral equip-
ment development, scheduling, and program development.


Page 7.
a. Systems

Taking these in order, let us first consider some of
the ramifications on the basic computer system. If many people
are Co be glven a real time access to a computer, the computer
must be capable of being time shared among remote user "consoles"
or sub-stations. It must equably divide up its time among the
users, and be able to quickly shift from one problem to the net,
So that each user is in effect using a slower machine, but one
which is not blocked off by other users. These remote units
must be connected to the main computer over low cost communi-
cation links.

To save time, programs must be allowed to coexist
within the same machine without mutual interference, and pro-
grams must be readily accessable via a large backup memory so
that any user can work in any available computer language of
his choice.

Our plans are to adapt an existing computer system
for time sharing. The implications of this set of require-
ments on the system are the following. First, in order to al-
low running programs to coexlst, changes wlll have to be made
in internal logical design to provide barriers in memory to
prevent unwanted access or change. Second, an "exchange" buf-
fer will have to be developed to service from 15-30 remote
stations, and provide for a pre-selected distribution of
available time among the remote units. A large memory such
as disc filles will also have to be linked into the system.

b. Peripheral Equipment

At present, 1t is envisioned that there will be two
basic types of remote consoles and connecting lines required.
These are: 1) A set of specially modified electric typewriters
and low-data-rate connections to the main computer for most re-
mote console stations. Thus, for these stations, the electric
typewriter would be the only communication to the computer.


2) A set of consoles that gre equipped in addition with both

a visual display device and a means of communicating hand
drawn shapes. Neither of these devices exists in a suitable
form at present for this usage. Display devices such as
Oscilloscopes have of course beep used with computers for
Some time, but most of these require an inordinate amount of
machine time to develop and maintaln a display. Similarly,
devices such as "light pens" for entering information suffer
from the same defects of machine time requirements as the pre-
sent oscilloscopes. A good, low input data rate, self-main-
taining display will have to be developed, as well as a form
of "drawing pad” for entering information. Much larger ver-
sions of these same devices will then be used to equip one or
two lecture halls which will be tied into the system. This
by no means exhausts the posgibilities, Having provided for
remote input-output Stations, many experiments such as cross
connecting with a smaller computer, testing out "spoken" in-
put languages, etc. become feasible.

ochedul ing

A computer system is basically a job shop whose business
is computation. It has many different processing equipments
within it, such ag its high speed memory, disc files, arith-
metlc units, etc. Not all of these are needed at any one time,
for any one problem. To maximize its output, i.e. to do as
much information processing as possible, the computer must
schedule "how much of what problem it does when". That is, the
computer must be able to rapidly solve its own "Job Shop
Scheduling Problem” in order to efficiently overlap many di-
verse jobs. This problem has yet to be adequately solved.

Programming

Bach of the aspects already mentioned will have an effect
on the final set of programming systems and programming


Page 9,

languages developed for the overall system.

"
The "scheduling" aspect will have its effect on a super-

visory routine; each type of peripheral device will require its

own input-output routines. Alsc dispatching and monitoring

routines will have to be developed for the system.

Progress to Date

Time sharing and multiprogramming are not new techniques
to the M.I.T. Computation Center. Since early in 1959, an
electric typewriter has been connected to our IBM 704, and has
been used in a time sharing mode for a variety of purposes
including monitoring and modifying heuristic programs, analyz-
ing and debugging programs, and running programs in a variety
of specialized languages. Special programming systems have
been devised to assure that when the 704 is multiprogrammed,
the programs can coexist and run independently.

In addition, the Center has developed and installed
many special purpose devices such 28 an "alarm clock" to test
cout the feasibility of equitably dividing time among users
and accounting for 1lts usage.

Plan of Approach

The overall direction of this project is under Professor
Herbert M. Teager of the Electrical Engineering Faculty and
Computation Center Staff. Assoclated with the project will
he Professor John MeCarthy, and Dr. Fernando J. Corbatd and
Dr. Michael Barnett of the M.I.T. Computation Center Staff.

Additional personnel will be recruited for the project
from che M.I.T. Staff.

Although 1¥ is difficult to completely specify the

exact schedule of when the various research phases of the
project wlll be completed, 1t ls expected that the timing
will be about as follows:


Page 10,

Phase I-Overall System Design-6 months starting September 1960
2xai bing oeptember 196o

Objective: Determine modifications to compute system for time
sharing, overall input

programming objectives

-output systems design, lay out multi-
, develop Scheduling techniques.

 
  
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Personnel:

1 1/2 full time engineers (including overhead) $7500.00
1 1/2 full time programmers 6000.00
1/2 time senior supervisor 4000.00
1/2 time among senior consultants 4000.00
Clerical costs, electronics, 3000.00

Total $24500.00
Phase II-Detailed Subsystem Design-6 months starting March 1960
Objective: Develop design of data transmission links and
input-output "exchanges"; develop programming systems for dis-
patching, monltoring, maintaining program files, ete.

Personnel:

1 1/2 full time engineers $7500.00
1 1/2 full time programmers 6000.00
1/2 time senior supervisor 4000.00
1/2 time among senior staff consultants 4000.00
Clerical costs, electronic supplies 5000.00

Total $26500.00
Phase IlI-Detalled Subsystem Development, Test and Evaluation

——————
starting in September 1961-liyear
Objective: Bulld prototype equipment for system, complete de-
talled programming systems, evaluate system in actual use, De-
velop and test specialized input output equipment.

 

Personnel:

2 full time engineers $20000.00
4 full time programmers 30000.00
1/2 time senior supervisor 8000.00
1/2 time among senior consultants 8000.00
Clerical costs, electronics 10000.00

——————

  

Total $76000.00


Page 11.

It is thus estimated that the funding support required

for personnel and prototype equipment wlll be approximately

$51,000 the first year and $76,000 for the second year in
order to carry out this project.

HMT': MBW


