Opportunities and Needs

 

Environment and New Facilities - M.I.T. has long been in the fore-
front in the—dEvETEpment of computing equipment and in developing
ways whereby this equipment can help solve problems in a wide
variety of fields. In the mid—30's Vannevar Bush built here the
first differential analyzer and several faculty members, in various
departments, used it to solve problems in engineering, mathematics,
and physics, which could not otherwise be solved. In the past
four years Whirlwind I, one of the first truly high—speed digital.‘
computers to get into operation, has been made available for more
than 1/3 of its time for the solution of general scientific prob-
lems. Problems from many fields, sponsored by members of all the
different departments at the Institute, have been put on the
machine. The programming research staff of Whirlwind has gained
experience in adapting the computer to this variety of problems

and the faculty at the Institute has begun to learn, by actual
doing, the ways in which the computer can help them solve their
problems.

Beginning in 1957, the computing facilities at M.I.T.
will be enlarged and reorganized into a Computation Center, to be
devoted entirely to unclassified scientific research and education.
I.B.M. is donating one of its new 70% computers with double the
usual storage units and with appropriate auxiliary equipment, and
will provide for the maintenance of the equipment; the Center will
be housed in the new K. T. Compton Laboratory Building3according
to a reement with I.B.M., the equipment will be used ten hours a
day on the "midnight shift") by I.B.M., will be available up to
seven hours a day to faculty members from other colleges in New
England and the remainder of the time (seven plus hours) will be
available for use by students and staff of M.I.T. for basic re-
search. The programming research staff, at present working with
Whirlwind, will be transferred to the Center, to serve as a nucleus
for planning machine use and for developing new techniques of
machine application.

Nature 9: the Research — Exploitation to the full of the potenti—
alities of a new piece of equipment can most effectively be accom—
plished by an advance on two fronts: the solving of specific problems
and the development of techniques. In the case of computing machines,
research workers in many fields should learn machine programming
techniques and then proceed to use the machine to help them solve
their own problems. In many cases they can develop the programs

they will need for their work, but in some crucial cases they will
need the help of those persons interested primarily in machine
operation, who are interested more in developing machine techniques
than in solving individual problems.

This division of labor has been necessary in many other
scientific advances. The recent great progress in nuclear physics


-2-

has come as well from the men interested in experimental techniques,
who spend their time trying to get more out of the cyclotrons they
have and building new and better cyclotrons, as from those who are ‘
primarily interested in measuring nuclear cross-sections and finding
new particles. Even in theoretical physics one needs the analysts,
who improve mathematical techniques, as well as the physicists
proper, who use the techniques to devise new theories. Research
into techniques does not usually have the glamour which research

on specific problems has, but in really new fields of investigation
the basic techniques often must be worked out before the specific
problems can begin to be attacked.

Research into techniques or using digital computers is
particularly important now, for the potentialities of the new
machines are not well understood by others, who would be benefited
by its help. For this reason we are hoping to enlarge our program—
ming research group when the I.B.M. machine gets here, so that, in
addition to helping the problem—solvers program their computations,
the group can spend some time devising really new tricks. Some of
this research should be into the possibilities of devising new modi-
fications of input and_output equipment so that, for example, the
results of some experiment can be fed directly into the machine for
detailed analysis, or so that the calculations performed by the
machine can be fed directly to a high-speed typesetter, in each
case eliminating one or more time-consuming and inaccurate human
interventions.

We are requesting NSF and ONR for help in developing
such techniques of particular use in adapting the computer to re-
search in the physical sciences. Some of the work proposed includes:

1. Devising, writing up, and correlating a library of
programs for solving standard problems, to facilitate the use of
the machine by workers in the physical sciences.

2. Investigating basic programming logic, how it can be
expressed in mathematical terms and how much of it can be carried
out by the machine itself.

3. Development of input equipment and techniques which
can connect the machine directly to the experiment, and output

equipment which cAn display results in a more concise and under-
standable form.

In this way the Computation Center can cooperate in an
active way with the various groups, at H.I.T. and at other New

England colleges, which are carrying on research in the physical
sciences.


-3-

 

325$ for Parallel Development in the Social Sciences - The work
we have proposed for support by NSF‘hEH‘UNF IE'EE‘EE primarily for
applications in the physical sciences. But the potentialities of
machine computers in the social sciences and in operations research
has equal or greater promise. In economics, in management problems,
in some aspects of psychology and in other fields, the data is
large in quantity, often requiring much statistical processing
and special display before its purport can be understood. Many
mathematical techniques, now being developed for these subjects,
require tremendous amounts of computation before they can.be
applied to specific problems. Although the appropriate machine
techniques and the special input-output equipment have not been
investigated very completely, it is already char that they will
often differ considerably from those devised for the physical
sciences and should be investigated separately, in close collabora-
tion with specialists in the social sciences. The grants requested
1 of NSF and ONE will not support the detailed theoretical study and
_ special equipment development which this research will require.

; It is, therefore, appropriate and desirable that a re-
quest be made for a separate grant for the development or machine ‘
techniques useful for these fields. We now have, at M.I.T. and "
in the neighboring colleges already planning to use the Computation
Center, a variety of specialists in the social sciences, who would

be interested in collaborating with the staff of the Center in
developing such techniques] Funds for the support of specific
studies, in particular fields, can and should be requested and
granted separately. But there is need to support the work of the
Center's staff in devising new techniques, in adapting known tech-
niques to new fields and in helping social scientists effectively

to utilize digital computers in their studies.

Possible Directions for Research — It is not possible at present
to enumerate in detail the directions this investigation of computer

techniques will take. Several promising leads have already aroused '
interest, however:

1. A basic investigation of the machine techniques for
computation in the general field of linear programming—-dynamic
programming~uinput-output analysis, which promises to be of con-
siderable importance in economics and in operations research. The
economics departments at both Harvard and M.I.T. are interested
in applying such techniques to their work. Professor Orcutt at
Harvard and Professor Solon at M.I.T. are on Advisory Committees
to the Computation Center and will cooperate in this work. The
computations are quite difficult for present equipment but it
appears likely that new programs, planned to utilize the considerably
greater high—speed storage of the new machine, can greatly improve
the speed of Solution. It is likely that fundamental improvements
in techniques of solution of these problems will also prove valuable


-a».

in devising algorithms for the solution of problems of game
theory, also of potential importance in these areas.

2. General studies of the use of machines in the
storage and translation of information have already been started
at M.I.T. A proJect in machine translation has already been set
up, under the direction of Professor Locke of the Language Depart-
ment. As it develops, it will need the help of machine programming
specialists and will need the use of a machine to test its ideas.
The translation project is already supported by the Rockefeller
Foundation, but parallel work by the Computation Center on tech-
niques for rapid access to large~quantity data would help this work
as well as others. For example, a study of the use and operation
of the M.I.T. libraries was begun last year. At present, the study
is concerned with the ways the library is being used at present,
but it is expected to move on to the consideration of possible im-
provement of library operation and extension of its use as a re-
search tool in science and engineering. One promising direction
of investigation is in the application of machine techniques to
library inventorying, cataloguing, and record—keeping. A1though_
special—purpose machines will probably be required in the end, many
ideas and procedures can be developed and checked out on the general-
purpose machine at the Center with the addition, perhaps, of some
specially built input and output equipment. The staff of the M.I.T.
Library is interested in this work, and will contribute its knowl—
edge to its progress.

3. A digital computer can be used as an integral part
of many experiments in the social sciences. It can be used to
simulate certain operational situations and thus to provide data
rapidly and under controlled conditions. For example, automobile
traffic distributes itself through the streets of a town according
to some minimization principle, on the average; It should be
possible to simulate this flow on the computer, trying different
aseumptions as to the effective "street resistances" and measuring
the resulting flow under various traffic stresses to see how closely ‘
the results check with measurements made in the Boston streets by
the Traffic Study Group already in operation in the Civil Engineering
Department at M.I.T. Tactical situations in warfare are already
being studied by “gaming techniques" at Rand and in other military
operations research groups. Similar tactical problems in various
fields of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying
the situation down to some sort of "game," with more or less com—
licated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators to

see what are the consequences of various strategies. If the “games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to some actual social situation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require

a great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that
only by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded

up sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide


“5-

an over-311 grasp of ltﬂ proportion. Such ”gaming tcohulquna”

are closely related to tho experimontn uf unvalnn on tho behavior
of tasknorientad groups. The uua or n properly ppngpummad gumpuﬁgr
would provida such experlumntn with n pmmrl‘ul um! flexible muunn
of changing, controlling, and unnlynlng than: nxpnrlmuntn in Hoolul
payoholohgu In this l‘lnld we could work In ulmw unllubm-atlun
with the Center for .l’ntornutlmml titlullou ht M.l.'l‘. and with tho
psychology department-J ln unvernl uther aollegea,

EXEBE§§9 ngggt — The three gonorul nrann of ntudy Juut mentlunod
are examples of fleldn or rnuonruh In computer toohuiquou qulto
different from thom‘ uurd ln tha phynluul nclonucﬂ, but onen
equally impnrtunt and pruminlng. The budget for the group to wurk
in the physical scienccn wlll run nhuut ﬁl00,000 I year. A group
of roughly equal size would bu neadad for the parallel work In

{w soul? uslmwna. ‘l‘h~ mhlml :Imrl‘ wnuld be, ln part, mmial
schmilsl I with :m lutmwist. ln munputm'n nml in part. mnfhcmmtlulnnll
Zlmu‘ crwm'tvv npwclnllutn wlth nn lutm'rui. ln :mrlnl :mlum-r. 'l‘lm
i‘lrunp Should prom; t‘ngx‘thm- (‘m' lu‘vnrnl yrux-n. un upprm-x \mu IMtU
and durrlt'lnn would be SNOA‘DO n yc-ur For (“Ive ymn-n_

    

Thin" budbui. would in: ddm‘mlntorud by tlm Cnmput..ldm|
Center and would be for the uupport of a group, workluu nt the
Center, .‘mvautigutint; muuhlnc Luuhnlququ of pvi'tmulur \ "LL? in
the social sciences, as discussed earlier in thln prnpunul. Nhon
other divisions, such as the Sloan School or the Roonnmlnn Dﬁpapt‘
ment at Harvard, are able to organize reuaaroh or educational
programs which utilize thcur techniques in their fields, with
separate financial support, they will find u nuulouu of unllnlmru-
tors and advisers at tho Cnntar, which can “no thnt their program
does,in fact utilize thn facilitieu of the Canter In an offantlvu

 

    

manner.
Phll(p~M. orua, Dixmu ox ‘
M.1.T. tn putation Cantor
PMM:JM

March 7 , 1950


