LECTURES ON FUNCTIONS OF A COMPLEX VARIABLE
The University of Michigan Press

Contents

G. T. Whyburn. Introductory topological analysis

D. C. Spencer. Potential theory and almost-complex manifolds
L. V. Ahlfors. Remarks on Riemann surfaces

Zeev Nehari. Univalent functions and linear differential equations
Rolf Nevanlinna. Countability of a Riemann surface

Rolf Nevanlinna. Polygonal representation of Riemann surfaces
Shizuo Kakutani. Rings of analytic functions

Marcel Brelot. Topologies on the boundary and harmonic measure
Marcel Brelot. Topology of R. S. Martin and Green lines

James Jenkins and Marston Morse. Conjugate nets on an open Riemann
surface

W. K. Hayman. The growth of entire and subharmonic functions

W. K. Hayman. Uniformly normal families

Lipman Bers. Local theory of pseudoanalytic functions

Leo Sario. Functionals on Riemann surfaces

Leo Sario.. Positive harmonic functions

P. C. Rosenbloom. Distribution of zeros of polynomials

P. C. Rosenbloom and S. E. Warschawski. Approximation by polynomials
Makoto Ohtsuka. Boundary components of abstract Riemann surfaces

H. L. Royden. Conformal deformation

Salomon Bochner. Functions in one complex variable as viewed from the
theory of functions in several variables

Avron Douglis. Function-theoretic properties of certain elliptic systems of
first-order linear equations

Harvey Cohn. Modular functions defined by perturbation mappings

H. J. Bremermann. Holomorphic continuation of the kernel function and the
Bergman metric in several complex variables

J. L. Ullman. Regularity criteria in potential theory
Walter Rudin. Analytic functions of class H,

Harold S. Shapiro. Applications of normed linear spaces to function-theoretic
extremal problems

Walter Baum. A topological problem originating in the theory of Riemann
surfaces

R. C. Buck. Expansion theorems for analytic functions. I

Jacob Korevaar. Entire functions as limits of polynomials

Wilfred Kaplan. Curve families and Riemann surfaces

C. J. Titus. The image of the boundary under a local homeomorphism


Reprinted from the
BULLETIN OF THE AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY
Vol. 61, No. 3, pp. 240-241
May, 1955

Geometrie der Zahlen. By O. H. Keller. Enzyklopidie der mathe-
matischen Wissenschaften mit Einschluss ihrer Anwendungen,
Vol. I;, No. 11, Part III. 2d ed. Leipzig, Teubner, 1954. 84 pp.
8.80 DM.

The title Geometrie der Zahlen was introduced by Minkowski over
half a century ago. Its subject matter has naturally expanded
greatly, particularly in the last twenty years, and the author com-
mendably presents a more modern account of the subject. The aim of
the Enzyklopddie is “to find a middle road between the . . . historical
presentation and the... systematic presentation.” The reviewer's
impression is that the work tends to be more systematic than his-
torical, but the few isolated remarks that follow can in no way detract
from the debt owed to the author for his pioneering compilation.

One major pre-Minkowskian development is the study of the min-
ima of quadratic forms in # variables, elegantly interpreted as the
densest lattice packing of equal spheres in # dimensions. The dis-
covery, essentially, that the symmetric tetrahedral packing (with
n-+1 mutually tangent spheres) is no longer densest when 7 =4 is one
of the earliest indications that n-dimensional “Euclidean geometry”
would depend on 7 with “number-theoretic” irregularity. Strangely
enough, the footnote reference to this result (footnote 184a) does
not refer to its discovery (by Korkine and Zolatareff in 1872) but


1955] BOOK REVIEWS 241

rather to a series of papers starting in 1948. The footnotes catch up
in the long run, if the reader uses his powers of deduction. But more
difficult is the deduction that the aforementioned result led to the
development of extremal methods and polyhedron packings.

The Minkowskian synthesis (i.e., the packing of space with general
convex bodies), certainly receives due attention, although a sense of
continuity with earlier work, particularly with that of Hermite, is not
made apparent. Likewise the contact between the geometry of num-
bers and algebraic number theory seems lost in the mass of details
again. The reviewer refers to the contact occurring when the alge-
braist had to work with inequalities not only to find bounds on norms
but even to prove the discriminant theorem, which implies the fol-
lowing: “Every irreducible monic polynomial of degree at least two
and with integral coefficients contains a repeated (polynomial) factor
modulo some prime.” Conversely in the last twenty years (owing
largely to the influence of Mordell, Davenport, and Mahler), the in-
tense desire for unimprovable bounds in algebraic number theory
caused the replacement of the convex body by the more general star
body. One contrast in presentation that the reader will immediately
note is that while the older methods (Minkowskian and earlier) are
often presented with enough detail (diagrams, tables, etc.) to excite
the non-specialist, the methods developed in the last twenty years
are given in little detail, with emphasis instead on lists of definitions,
theorems, and conjectures, and with a valuable bibliography drawn
up for 1951. Incidentally, a more modern bibliographical format
(alphabetically arranged, and containing the titles of the papers)
probably would be more useful.

The chapter titles are as follows: A. Convex bodies. B. Star bodies.
C. Linear forms. D. Minima of homogeneous forms. E. Inhomogene-
ous forms. F. Quadratic definite forms. G. Continued fractions. H.
Algebraic numbers. I. Partitions and lattice point figures. The re-
viewer feels that the inclusion of the last chapter is hardly justified
by the historical continuity presented, but that otherwise the titles
suggest that the geometry of numbers still would not be beyond
Minkowski’s recognition.

HArvEY CoHN


