22

(2.501) in the program would set the machine busily
computing the exponential of 2.501, so it can be used
in the next stage of the computation.

UT I hadn’t intended to spend so much time talk-

ing generalities. I think a few specific cases will
exemplify some of the points I've been trying to make
and will illustrate a few of the ways whereby a high-
speed digital computer can be used by physicists. T'll
pick the examples in physics—though I would have had
a wider choice of examples in engineering or meteor-
ology or geophysics—out of the several thousand re-
search computations carried out by Whirlwind in the
past few years. Also, my examples are chosen from
work done on Whirlwind I at MIT because I know
this work more intimately. Quite similar examples could
be drawn from the work of any of the other large ma-
chines now operating.

An example of a very simple problem, requiring little
machine experience, was the solution of about 500 five-
by-five secular equations for J. C. Slater and G. F.
Koster of our solid-state theory group. In this case the
program for solution had already been devised for a
previous problem and needed only minor modifications
to be used. The values of the matrix components were
all computed out by hand and fed in successively to
the machine, the 2500 roots successively appearing in
the output. The whole computation of the roots took
the machine about four hours to accomplish. Although
this was a long time for the machine, because of the
large input and output, it represented a substantial sav-
ing of time for the computers, since no appreciable
time had been spent on programming. The accuracy and
reliability of the answers was better than would have
been obtained by hand, without a great deal of time
spent on checking. Here the machine was used like a
glorified desk computer, and little of its potentialities
for combined programs was realized. The volume of
the output was fairly large, but the results were uti-
lized in further hand computations, so no great care
had to be taken to obtain good typography or format
for the output.

A more interesting and much more ambitious prob-
lem, done by E. H. Jacobsen, involved the calculation
of the density of vibrational energy levels for -the crys-
tal lattice of copper, needed in order to compute the
temperature diffuse scattering of x-rays from the elastic
constants of the lattice. In this problem 30 000 three-
by-three secular equations were solyed. If all the matrix
components had been hand computed and then fed in,
and if all the 90 000 energy values had been fed out of
the machine, the inefficiencies of. the input-output units
would have caused great delays. More important, such
a mass of numbers could not have been held at one
time in the internal storage, so the machine would have
had to stop frequently to unload answers and load up
new data, which would have stretched the job out to a
completely unacceptable length of time. In addition,
the hand analysis of 90 000 answers would have been a
tedious and discouraging job, to say the least.

 

To shorten the time, several things were done, each
of them adding complexity to the program but making
it easier for the machine. In the first place the machine
was asked to compute all 270 000 matrix components.
The machine could compute one of these components
much faster than a precalculated value could be fed
into its memory from outside. In addition, the machine
didn’t have to remember a lot of them, it could com-
pute each value as it was needed; only the general di-
rections for computing the values had to be remem-
bered. In the second place, the computed energy values
were never withdrawn from the machine. What was
needed was, not the values of each of the 90 000 levels,
but information on how many such levels there were in
a sequence of adjoining energy bands: in other words,
the density of levels in various ranges of energy was
the answer sought.

To record the level density, several hundred storage
registers in the machine were set aside to serve as a
sequence of energy bands, covering the energy range of
interest. Each energy level, as it was computed, was
then read as a register address, not as a number, and
thereby routed to the storage register for that energy
value. For example, if a computed level turned out to
be 253.7, storage register 253, which was counting all
levels between 253 and 254, was increased by one unit,
whereas if the level were 177.2, one unit would be
added to register 177. At the end of the computation
the tally count in each of these registers was just the
number of levels in the corresponding energy band; the
90 000 individual energy values had long since been
forgotten and all that was taken out of the machine
were these several hundred level density counts, which
took very little time to record. I am sure you realize
that the actual process was not as simple as I have de-
scribed it here, but the basic principle was similar. A
problem, at first sight too big for Whirlwind, was thus
squeezed on by clever programming.

I don’t know how long it would have taken to have
computed by hand 270 000 matrix components, from
them to have obtained 90 000 energy values by hand,
and then to have counted up all the levels occurring in
the various energy bands in a sequence covering the
appropriate energy range. It probably would have taken
several man-years. The times actually required force-
fully illustrate the magnitude of the speed-up, and also
thp size of the programming bottleneck. It took Whirl-
\}rmd only one hour and a half to do all the calculations,
literally millions of them. But it took six man-months
to work out the program, test it, and get it ready for
the hour and a half run. However, Jacobsen, who
worked the program out, started from scratch, without
any previ.ous experience with big computers. If he had
started with as much experience as he now has, it prob-
ably would have taken him only three months to work
out the program, but I doubt whether he could have
done it in much less time. And I doubt whether a pro-
fes.smnal. programmer, if he had been handed a set of
written instructions, could have done it at all, no mat-
ter how voluminous the written instructions were. Such

PHYSICS TODAY