Newd = = TRIP REPORT

TO: No Dr. M. A. Shader FROM: Cambridge MIT CC
EN TE te ig ey |
PLACE VISITED! — Boston University DATE: November 22, 1957

PERSON SEEN: Prof. John Alman, Director of the
Computation Laboratory at
Boston University :

The purpose of thie call was to discuss with Prof. Alman his present
program on the 650 and also the plans of Boston University for utilizing
the MIT Computation Center, Prof. Alman said that the 650 was being
kept reasonably busy with student and faculty research and training.

The laboratory is operative several evenings per week. He said that
Prof. Scheid had approximately 40 students enrolled in his Numerical
Analysis Course. The laboratory work of the Numerical Analysis Course
involves using the 650 computer and the laboratory portion of the course
is handled by the staff of the Computation Laboratory. At present, Prof.
Alman said, the evening programming course was underway. This course
is attended by approximately 60 students in three sections. The cour se
is essentially a 650 programming course and is taught by Mr. Lawrence
Belsky of the computing laboratory staff.

Prof. Alman stated that at the present time all research and training
problems that appeared to be occurring at Boston University could be
adequately handled in the 650 computation laboratory. He expressed the
opinion that as long as problems could be sclved on the 650 that it should
be used for this purpose rather than making use of the 704 at MIT.
However, two people including Mr. Belsky from BU attended the 704
programining course in August of this year and are in position toc program
problems for the 704.when the need arises.

I planned to see Prof, Scheid also on this call but was unable to see him
today. I intend to make a call again in the near future and discuss the
question with him.

By carbon copy of this, I am asking Dr. Corbato to place Prof. Alman
on the mailing list for notification of the Tuesday afternoon meeting at the
Computation Center at which seminar speakers are present.

Ng.

N J. F. Blackburn
JFB/jeh
cc: Prof. P. M. Morse, T

Dr. ¥., J. Corbato, MIT

Dr. M. A. Shader, White Plains

ir, W. F. McClelland, Eastern Regional

Mr. W, T. Hamlen, Cambridge


