\x/

N. McL. SAGE
nmzcmn

‘ L, FOSTER

 

 

—-ﬁ-s~ «r — ~-— dgwm
_;;/// MASSACHUSETTSINSTWUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
DIVISION OF INDUSTRIAL COéPERATION

CAMBRIDGE 39. MASS.

R. H. ROBNEYT
risen. orncEn

November 23, 1951 F,V_CUECK

AssleANT To me DIRECTOR ASS|SYANY FISCAL OFFICER

. s. STEVENS
ASSISYANT

 

 

Commanding General
hi? Reoerroh and Development Command

P. 0. Box 1395
Baitimoro 3, Maryland

Att: HDMPE/G.G. Eruaer/ag
Dear Sir;

He referred your propQSal of October 17 #92708 to ,
Prof. P. M. Morse, who is bheirman of the MIT Committee
on Machine Methods of Computation.

 

 

The Institute presently has in operation, supported
by the Air Force, a Differential Analyser, a REAC, and the
”hirlwiné Digital Computer (to which the Navy also contri-
butes.) he have also an UNR program conducted by Prof.

‘ Morse and some of his colleagues.

Becauae of the undoubted ovnrlap between what we
are now doing, and what you wish done under "Stztemant of
'ork", we believe it woul< be advisable to have Lr. Morse
talk with Lt. 001. H. G. Henry :nr to Dr. Skinner who, We
unverstond, is senior civilian in EH30, €n< would be Dar—
ticu‘srly interoated in thin ares.

Iecaume of too numbers of people involved and the
comployity of the oroblem I think it woulo be advisable
if the auggostec meeting couln be held ﬁt the Institute
where the equipment and pnrsonnol can be epsily assembled.

Very truly yourg,

3””‘(D5 N. “0L. maﬁa

In (uwlioote

 
  

cc: Lt. Cr . ~0nry, XCRB
irof. E. Y. iorse, HIT


- Room 6409‘ "

. Novainber 7, 1951':

‘ Mr. H. McL. Sage

Room 5-105, HIT
Dear Hat:

The enclosed request for a propdsal from ARDC for I

, research in the use of computing machines has recelvod very

considerable attention from several members'of the Physics ,
Department. It is a problem which is of considerable inter-

est to several of us, in fact it is a problem very similar .
in its scope to part of the task-order in the OER-Whirlwind

contract. It is this similarity, as & matter of fact, which
has led to our hesitation.

We are already doing part of the work outline& in
this request; we are anxious to do the rest. But we feel
it might be better to do this work under one combined con-
tract instead of trying to serve two masters, so to speak;
Since we have no need of additional funds this year to carry
on, we can afford to wait until some one from ARDC comes up
here .to talk over the best way to do what they want to get
done. I would like to have a chance to talk to Dr. Skinner
who, I believe, is the senior civilian in ARDC, about our
plans for the use of the big machines at Tech, for research
and for training. If this can be arranged, please let me
know.

Yours, .

Prinrd Philiﬁ iii . flows

’1'

cc: Dr. Stratton


