dELIMINARY
PROGRAM

WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 8

8-10 pm.

THURSDAY,
JANUARY 9

9 a.m.

9:30 am.

11:15 a.m.
ll:h0 am.

1.

2.

for the District I Convention of the American College Public Relations
Association, January 8, 9, and 10, 1958, at the Somerset Hotel and M.I.T.

Registration, recegtion, gnglstudio party at hGBX-I-TV, 8).; Massachusetts
Avenue, Cambridge. hGBH—TV and the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broad-
casting Council will entertain the Convention. Up to 120 members can
be accommodated as studio audience for "I've Been Reading," with mees—
_s_o_r_P_. Albert Duhamel of Boston College and Volta Torrey of M.I.T. at
9:30 pm.

 

Registration in the foyer of Kresge Auditorium, M.I.T.

A general session on current scientific events and their implications
for all colleges and universities, in the Little Theater, Kresge.

]_D_r_._ Elbert 3-. Little, Executive Director of the Physical Science Study

committee, on the Committee’s project for improving high school physics
and on its possible effects on the students available to colleges.

Dr; H; Guyford Stever, Professor of Aeronautical Engineering and Associate
Dean of the M.I.T. School of Engineering, on the challenge of rockets
and Sputniks and the problems of American leadership in this field.

Alexander 9: Korg. of the I-‘I.I.T. Center for International Studies,
author of "Soviet Education for Science and Technology," on science,
scientific education, and science public relations in the U.S.S.R.

EL: George i.- Harrisog, Dean of the M.I.T. School of Science, on the new
role of science in our daily lives and on its implications for all in-
stitutions of higher education.

Coffee in the Kresge Auditorium foyer.
Four concurrent sessions:

T_h_§ i‘I‘I.I.T. Computation Center, an introduction designed especially for
representatE—es of colleges participating in the New England Colleges
and Universities Cooperative Program by Professor _Phi1ip ﬂ: Morse, Di-
rector of the Center. (Since facilities—are limited, representatives

of participating colleges will have priority in attendance; these col-
leges include Amherst, Bates, Bennington, Boston College, Boston Univer-
sity, Bowdoin, Brandeis, Brown, University of Connecticut, Dartmouth,
Goddard, Harvard, University of Maine, University of Massachusetts, Mid-
dlebury, Mount Holyoke, University of New Hampshire, Northeastern, Univ-
ersity of Rhode Island, Tufts, University of Vermont, "Iellesley, Wesleyan,
Williams, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and Yale. Others will be
accommodated if space permits.)

A session on college movies, film Egg, and slides, featuring new
films shown and described by 3531} sponsors. Frank £ Conant, Manager
of the M.I.T. Photographic Service, in charge of arrangements. (NOTE:
This session was originally set for 9 a.m. on Friday and has recently
been changed; it is the one referred to as Friday morning in the general

information sheets.)


RELIMINARY
PROGRAM

- Page 2 Concurrent sessions at llzhO am. Thursday, January 9 (continued):

 

3. An informal meeting for newcomers in college public relations, conducted
by Walter E Milne, Assistant to the Director of Public Relations at M.I.T.

 

h. _O_oex_1 house-clinic at VSGBH-TV. A number of members of the station staff
will be on hand to discuss programming, production, publicity, and other
problems associated with television activities - both commercial and
educational. Peter Minn, Director of Public Relations for L'JGBH—TV, host.

 

 

1:15 p.m. Luncheon at the M.I.T. Faculty Club, Sixth Floor, 50 Memorial Drive,
Cambridge.

James & Jordan, National President of A.C.P.R.A. and Director of Univer-
sity Relations at the State University of Iowa, will speak on "The People
Vs. Educational Public Relations: Court of Public Opinion, 1965."

. (
3 pm. Two concurrent sessions:

1. The lively arts in the news, a discussion of how to publicize the role of

art, drama, music, and other "cultural" subjects in a college education.
Among the speakers will be:

 

 

Albert Bush-Brown, Assistant Professor of Architectural History, M.I.T.

William & Dooley, Head of the Division of Education, Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston. ‘

Bartlett E; Hayes, ﬂu Director of the Addison Gallery of American Art ‘
at Phillips Academy, Andover. ‘

 

2. An informal session on sports publicity, arranged by ‘19; Henry Johnston of
Harvard and Ernest A: Roberts of I-I.I.T. (and the Boston GLOBE).

 

5:30 p.m. Arthur D. Little, Inc., will entertain members of District I A.C.P.R.A.

and theﬁ guests at a reception in the Regency Room, Somerset Hotel,
LLOO Commonwealth Avenue, Boston.

6:115 p.m. Banquet in the Regency Room. i

District I will award its annual citation.

% Fred h Whipple, Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
and Professor of Astronomy at Harvard, will discuss from his recent per-

sonal experiences some new aspects of the interrelationships between
scientists and the press.

 

FRIDAY,
JANUARY 10

9 am. The annual business meeting of District I, in the Little Theater of Kresge
mitorium.

[a ﬂoe_l Johnston, Executive Director of A.C.P.R.A., will report on develop-
ments in national headquarters.

Charles 1: Hall (University of Rhode Island) and Howard _S_._ Curtis (Brown
University) will present the report of the Committee on By—Laws.

Stephen L Kezerian (Yale University) will report for the Nomimting Com-
mittee.

 

 

_’I‘_h_e Resolutions Committee will make its annual report.

And there will be time for any other business which may come before the
house.


4L IMINARY
PRCGRAM
— Page 3

9:16 am.

11:00 am.

ll: 15 3.1!!»
l.

2.

3.

12:30 pm.

Sessions on Friday, January 10, 1958 (continued):

A discussion of current issues 3} education and the problems of publicity
which they involve, by leading Education Editors from New England and New
Yrrk, in the Little Theater of Kresge Auditorium.

Coffee in the foyer of Kresge Auditorium.

Three concurrent sessions:

A report on three development activities of special interest to New Eng—
land colleges:

The organization and operation of the_Funqu'l_i:9}‘ Harvard College will be
described by Frank A_._ Pemberton, Assistant Director--Public Relations of
the Fund.

 

 

campaign.

Late news on 1957 operations and 1958 plans from the M England Colleges
Fund, Inc.

 

 

"m to ganglia 21"; College Newspapeg," a report by Brofessor Arthur Mus—

grave of' the University of Massachusetts, with contributions by select-ed
District I members and discussion from the floor.

A commentary on ﬂew Erﬂand college publicatiolLs by George A; Adams, lec-
turer in design at the London School of Printing and Graphic Arts. (NOTE:
This session was originally set for 11:140 Thursday and is so mentioned in
the general information sheets.)

Buffet luncheon in the Campus Room of the M.I.T. Graduate House.

FCR FURTHER INFORIVLTION or to make SUGGESTIONS for this program, please
write to John I. Mattill, Director of Publications, Room 7-221, M.I.T.,
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts - telephone UNivcrsity h-6900, ext. 2697.
We’ll be delighted to change schedules (if we can) and/or add features
for which there is demand.


