Professor Carl F. Floe
Vice Chancellor

Room 3-240

M.I1I.T.

Dear Professor Floe:

I thought it might be desirable for me to put in writing my
request for some re-adjustment of space used by IBM personnel at the
Computation Center. In my conversation with Professor Morse today
he felt that the requests I am making should be separated into two
categories. One request concerns space in Building 26 and hence con-
cerns Professor Morse. The other request concerns Building 20 and
Professor Morse prefers not to concern himself with that.

My first and most important request is that Room 26-145 adjacent
to my secretary's office be assigned to IBM. This room together with
26-147 and 26-151 which we now have will enable us to concentrate our
people who have the greatest need to work near the machine. If this
request is granted, I shall move my office into 26-145, leave my secre-
tary in 26-147 and use 26-151 as a location for our programmers and
our operations co-ordinator to work. This will enable them to be near
the computer and thus do an effective job.

My second request has to do with utilization of the space assigned
to us in Building 20C. Rooms 20C-222 and 20C-224 are now being used
only during the periods when we have a practical training class in
session. In the past, this has been two weeks per month. In the future,
it is anticipated that this will be two weeks every two months. I am, there-
fore, requesting that one of the following two arrangements be made
relative to that space:

1. My preferred arrangement is to move about six people
into these rooms on a regular basis. During the periods
when the 704 practical training class is in session they
can all be moved into one room - thus vacating the other
one for the class.


“Ze

iv

. My second choice is to relinquish these two rooms effective
immediately and to ask MIT for classroom space as near to
Building 26 as possible for the 704 practical training classes.
This would average about two weeks out of each two month
period. We could get by with afternoons only. The morning
session could be held elsewhere.

I wish to emphasize that my most vital concern is the request for
Room 26-145. Any arrangement we make concerning 20C-222 and
20C-224 is of secondary importance. These latter rooms are too far
from the Computation Center to serve as "on the spot' operating locations.

I trust that we can work out an arrangement whereby our shift
on the 704 can run smoothly. I know that you will consider this in your
decision.

Very truly yours,

J. ¥F. Blackburn
University and Research
Institute Representative
JFB/jeh

\
cc: Prof. P. M. Morse |


