{ curses :in
Frontier Research

on

Digital Computers

INTRODUCTION TO THE USE OF
DIGITAL COMPUTERS

August 17 to 28, 1959

Intensive Courses for Engineers, Scientists,
Industrial and Business Users of
Digital Computers

UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
ExTENSION DIVISION

1959
SUMMER SESSION


INTENSIVE COURSES IN
DIGITAL COMPUTERS

In May of this year the Consolidated Uni-
versity of North Carolina will install one of
the largest digital computers being used for
research and education at any university, the
Univac Scientific 1105 Computer and Data
Processor. As its first contribution to the
education and training of the country’s scien-
tists, engineers, and managers in this rapidly
changing field, the Research Computation
Center, in cooperation with the University of
North Carolina Summer Session, the Depart-
ment of Mathematics, and Extension Service,
will present a series of intensive courses in
the use of digital computers.

These courses will be held in Chapel Hill
from August 17-28, but they will draw on the
resources not only of the University of North
Carolina in Chapel Hill, but also those of
North Carolina State College in Raleigh and
the Woman’s College in Greensboro. They
will be under the leadership of John W. Carr
I1I, Director of the Computation Center and
Associate Professor of Mathematics. Dr. Carr
was the founder of a similar series of courses
at the University of Michigan in 1953. During
the last two years, he organized courses there
in Advanced Numerical Analysis, Applica-
tions of Logic to Programming, and Artificial
Intelligence that attracted wide comment.

The purpose of the new University of
North Carolina courses will be two-fold: The
introductory course will be aimed at persons
in North Carolina and the Southeast United
States who have not as yet received a back-
ground in the fundamentals of digital com-
puters.

The two advanced courses, “interlaced”
in the hours of lectures, will allow the prac-
ticing scientist, engineer, and professional
computer programmer to hear lectures by,
and discuss recent developments with, lead-
ing computer mathematicians and program-
mers from all over the world. Within the
past year, members of the Research Compu-

 

tation Center have visited computing instal-
]ations throughout the United States, Great
Britain, Western Europe, and the Soviet
Union. Invitations have been sent to lead-
ing computer experts from all these areas
to lecture at the August sessions. Transla-
tions of key papers from German and Rus-
sian will be made available to persons at-
tending. A set of notes, including transla-
tions, will be issued during the sessions, and
following the sessions, notes based on the
lectures themselves will be distributed.

DATE

The date of the course, August 17-28, has
been picked so that persons attending from
a distance may travel on to the Association
for Computing Machinery National Meeting
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 1,
2, and 3.

COURSE HOURS

Lectures in courses will generally run five
or more hours a day, excluding Saturday and
Sunday. Special sessions will also be held at
night. |

DESCRIPTION OF THE COURSES
Introduction to the Use of Digital Computers

This course will be aimed at those per-
sons interested in the use of digital comput-
ers and data processors in areas of both
scientific and data processing applications.
With the development of automatic program-
ming techniques, newcomers to the computer
field can be taught how to use machines
without the necessity of a detailed knowl-
edge of any particular computer. Partici-
pants will be taught the structure, depend-
ing on their interests, of one or more ex-
ternal languages: the International Algebraic
Language, IT, Unicode, or AIMACO, which
are aimed at all types of problems, and will
actually solve one or more problems on the
Univac 1105 using these techniques.

Lectures on applications of computers
will be divided into two groups: applica-

tions to file maintenance, managerial, and
other business problems, and applications to
scientific and engineering computations. The
level of the course is such that the average
university graduate in business administra-
tion, engineering, or science should find him-
self adequately prepared.

Emphasis on solution of problems will
stress a laboratory period each day and ac-
tual machine problem solving. Progsram-
mers from the Research Computation Center

will give individual instruction where neces-
sary.

Frontier Research in Programming and
Artificial Intelligence

This course will emphasize both new
theory and techniques in the sophisticated
use of digital computers for basically non-
calculational purpose. It is aimed at re-
search programmers, applied logicians, per-
sons using digital computers for attacks on
large and complex problems, and persons
working in similar areas. Persons attending
should have had experience as computer pro-
grammers in using the tools of modern auto-
matic programming.

The following lecturers are among those
who have been invited:

- PROFESSOR ALAN J. PERLIS, Carnegie In-
stitute of Technology, Editor of the Communica-

tions of the ACM, and developer of the IT Com-
piler.

PROFESSOR MARVIN MINSKY, M.IT,
author of papers on “artificial intelligence” and
its applications in the field of digital computers.

PHILIP DREYFUSS, Compagnie des Machines
Bull, Paris, designer of the Bull Gamma-60 “con-
current” computer.

PROFESSOR SAUL GORN, University of
Pennsylvania, originator of the concept of a uni-
versal computer language, now heading research
on a common computer language for the U. S.
Army.

HEINZ SCHECHER, Munich Technische Hoch-
schule, Munich, originator of “indirect addressing”
and designer of the computer PERM.

 

The Univac Computer Model 1105

Courtesy of Remington Rand Univac

Re Ee


PROFESSOR JOHN W. CARR III, Research
Computation Center, University of North Caro-
lina.

In addition representatives of computer manu-
facturers will be invited to report on their latest
researches. In continuation of an exchange of
personnel last year initiated by Professor Carr
when United States and Soviet computer scien-
tists visited the other's country, Dr. A. P. Ershov,
author of the compilers for the Soviet Computers
BESM and Strela, will be invited to lecture in
this course if circumstances permit.

Frontier Research in Numerical
Analysis for Computers

This course will emphasize recent devel-
opment in numerical analysis, based both on
theoretical considerations and experiences in
actual computation at leading centers. This
course should be of most interest to practic-
ing analysts in digital computation installa-
tions, and to those mathematicians, en gineers,
and scientists who have not had access to the
newest techniques in computer oriented nu-
merical analysis.

The following lecturers are among those
who have been or will be invited:

DR. R. W. HAMMING, Bell Telephone Labora-
tories, and present President of the Association
for Computing Machinery.

PROFESSOR DAVID YOUNG, Director, Com-
putation Laboratory of the University of Texas,
formerly Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation.

DR. HEINZ RUTISHAUSER, Eidgenoessische
Technische Hochschule, Zurich.

DR. JACK MOSHMAN, Corporation for Eco-
nomic and Industrial Research, and Secretary,
Association for Computing Machinery.

PROFESSOR JOHN W. CARR III, Research
Computation Center, University of North Caro-
lina.

In keeping with the continuation of exchange
lectureships first arranged last year, Professor
L. V. Kantorovich of Leningrad University, a lead-
ing authority on linear programming, functional
analysis, and numerical analysis will be invited
to lecture in this course, if circumstances permit.

 

FLEXIBLE ATTENDANCE

Lecture schedules will be so arranged that
persons enrolled in the advanced courses may
easily attend lectures in another course if
they so desire.

FOREIGN COMPUTER ACTIVITY

Special lectures, notes, and discussions
will be held on recent activity in the design,
construction, and use of computers in the
Soviet Union, United Kingdom, France, Ger-
many, Switzerland, and other foreign coun-
tries.

GENERAL SESSIONS

Every night during the course period,
general sessions discussing items of interest
to all those attending will be held, at whica
such diverse subjects as “Present Computer
Progress in the Soviet Union,” “Can a Digi-
tal Computer Teach a Course in Digital Com-
putation?”, “The Present Status of Machine
Language Translation,” “Machines With
Many Control Counters,” and others will be
presented by members of the lecturing staff,
or others attending just for the occasion.

HOUSING

All classrooms and meeting rooms will be
airconditioned, and, in addition, rooms at the
Carolina Inn, completely airconditioned, may
be reserved by attendees not desiring to stay
in less expensive dormitory accommodations,
by contacting the Carolina Inn direct.

APPLICATIONS

Applications for enrollment and requests
for information should be directed to James
G. Steagall, University Extension Division,
Box 1050, Chapel Hill, N. C. The fees for the
courses are listed below and include instruc-
tion, course notes, and computer operation
costs. Advanced enrollment is necessary to
plan the course attendance, the number of
students accepted being limited. A check

ol) fee, payable to the University Ex-
quest f Vision, should accompany the re-
Mental enrollment. Companies or govern-
rather le may send purchase orders
ment an checks. Application for enroll-

Should be made by June 15, 1959, and

VR note which course is being applied

FEES

Introduction to the Use of Digital Computers

: John W. Carr III, and staff of the Compu-
ation Center and others.

August 17-28 $150.00

Frontier Research in Programming and Arti-
ficial Intelligence

John W. Carr III and others.
August 17-28 $200.00

Frontier Research in Numerical Analysis for
Computers

John W. Carr III and others.
August 17-28 $200.00

FURTHER ANNOUNCEMENT

A further announcement containing a de-
tailed list of lectures and lecturers for each
of the three courses, further housing informa-
tion and description of recreational facilities,
will be mailed later this spring. Persons
indicating interest in enrollment will auto-
matically receive such further announce-
ments.

Courses In

Frontier Research

on

Digital Computers

INTRODUCTION TO THE USE OF
DIGITAL COMPUTERS

August 17 to 28, 1959

Intensive Courses for Engineers, Scientists,
Industrial and Business Users of
Digital Computers

UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA

EXTENSION DIVISION

1959
SUMMER SESSION


