— ’

To: Deans, Department Heads, and Members of the Committee
on Machine Computation

From: Director, Computation Center

Subject: Assistantships and Associateships in Machine Computation

1. The ONR Assistantships, in Computing, available for
the past four years to graduate students at MIT are not available
next year. :

2. IBM is providing funds for a new set of Assistant-
ships and Associateships which will, to some extent, take the
place of the ONR ones. IBM has made funds available for awards
at MIT, which would support about ten Assistants per year (or six
Assistants and two Associates, etc.). The duties would be to help
program and run problems at the Computation Center the appropriate
fraction of their time each week, during which time they would re-
port to the staff of the Center.

3. As with the previous ONR Assistantships, appointments
are made by the Director, on the recommendation of the Departuent
and with the advice of the Institute Committee on Machine Computa-
tion (names below). Payments to appointees are made via their
Departments as before. Recommendations for appointments together
with supporting material should be in my hands by March 15 or
before.

4. IBM is also providing funds for Research Assistants
and Associates to the Center from other New England universities
participating in the Computation Center. Announcements of these
opportunities is appended. The description there given applies
to the opportunities available for MIT students and senior staff,
the only changes needed in the announcements being: the addition
of MIT after the word AT: and the change of wording in the red
band to read Apply to your department head or to Professor P. M.
Morse, on the front of the page? and the change of the words
college or lnstitution, on the back of the page, to read MIT school
or department.

 

5. A special two-week course in programming for IBM 704
computer, to be installed at the Center, will be given to next
year's Research Assistants and Associates (and a few others especially
interested), the last two weeks in August, here at the Institute.
The staff for the course will be experts from MIT and IBM, Applil-
cations for admission to the course should be in my hands before
May 1.


29=

6. I will be glad to give further details.

 
   

M. Morse, Director

omputation Center

MEMBERSHIP OF M.I.T. MACHINE COMPUTATION COMMITTEE

Philip M. Morse, Chairman
Samuel H. Caldwell

Herman Feshbach

Jay W. Forrester

Francis B. Hildebrand
Chia-Chiao Lin

James B. Reswick

PMM: JM

February 15, 1956

Physics

Electrical Engineering
Physics

Electrical Engineering
Mathematics
Mathematics

Mechanical Engineering


