COPY

April 12, 1957

Dr. Frank M¥., Verzuh, Asst. Director
Computation Center
Room 20C=-206

Dear Frank:

Enclosed is a schedule for the entertainment of approximately
thirty economists of the Federal Reserve bans ol the united
States who in some sort of a convention in Doston are coming
to Mo I. T. on the morning of Honday, May 13, under the spon-
sorship of Mr, Wallace Dickson whom I understand to be The
Director of Public Information of the Federal Reserve Bank

of Boston. The schedule up through 10:30 is firm, also from
12:00 m. to 1:30. There remains the period in between whlch
I have listed on the enclosed schedule as for the Echell loom
in Building 52 from 10340 to 11:50 in your charge.

Should the computer "704" which was our original objective be
in any condition to show them, thls schedule can have thelr
10:40 destination changed accordingly, and it would then be
gsgential only to get them to the Faculty Club in time %o
start lunch at 12:00,

It is my understanding that if "704" is not in shape at that
time, you or someone provided by you will endeavor to engage
this group in informative conversation of some sort in the
Schell Room for the period indicated.

The telephone connection by which I contact Dickson 1s HAncock
6=7100, and I think it would be first rate 1 you can find

out from him more about the capacities of these people and
what can be best done for them, Your assumption of this nebu=-
lous assignment ls much appreciated.

Sincerely yours,

John W es Mo Bunker
Adviser to the President
JWrB/B
Enclosure
cCc==lr, Forrester
ore Horse
Poe Se I have now made contact with Professor Ralph Freeman,

He suggests that these people should be interested in data

£ rk Al

SEW Ao


Dr. Frank N, vel O P Vee 12, 1957

Processing, that the Federal Reserve Banks have a tremendous
amount of statistical work such as elearing of cheaks, eto, ,
and for these purposes some of the banks already are naing

Computers and others should know what Computers will do for
them, Perhaps this 1s Q clue [op your sermon,

Ja B,


