Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

 

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Di ital Computer Operation
—“ v and ﬁtIiiEEtIon--Investigation into

the patterns of operation of'ETectronic digital computers and the

methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental

'research; including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-

gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete

mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis

,and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such

specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Pro osed Research; Back round Information: We are organizing what
should be one o? the most fruit?ul centers for research related to
the use‘of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 70h machines, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non—classified and non-routine research. MIT '
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and business. A central research coup, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers p ad from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, work zlosely with persons from the
other colleges, will help CCOTdiﬂabE the work of the Center and
will carry on research of their own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine


-2-

operation to ekperimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and social sciences and in engineering.

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some or the staff of the
participating colleges would Join it for a semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full-time at the Center.

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. We believe that a contribution of
about $100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the re—
search carried on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges. We list later in this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects will develop naturally from these and 1
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center.

The project would not start at full strength. The 70% will
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. We estimate that a total budget of $60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, 390,000 for 1957-58 and $100,000
for 1958-59. Details are given later in this proposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the program should be rewevaluated to determine
needs beyond that time°

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONE and NSF, we are requesting financial Support
from both agencie " F on each. We believe the work
can be divided so :Lo ‘ a be written. Some of
the proposed tasks though some of the broader
?ie1ds of investig " He would hope that we could

  

 
 

vs.


-3-

 

put out a combined progress report. In some published papers,
credit could be given to one organization alone; in others, credit
would go to both. Bookkeeping would be somewhat more complicated,
but since most of the expense would be for salaries, little for
permanent equipment, this could be done. It probably would be
necessary to have the usual government overhead for both contracts.

The proposed budget asked of each agency for 1956—57 is
given below. The corresponding amounts for the following two years
would be $ﬁ5,000 for 1957-58 and 350,000 for 1958—59, as indicated
above.

Proposed Research; Possible Initial Directions 2; Investigation:

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input
languages; the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical,
logical or business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and automatic
error analysis. \

3. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more general
expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomials sums for simulating
standard functions by a common block of instructions but small
separate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and methods of
automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial plus
Richardson extrapolation or other means.

A. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques
for communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible improve-
ments in input—output equipment.


-u-

6. Experimental analysis and control using data
transmitted directly between computer and experiment.

7. Investigation of microprozramming and other methods
for increasing the flexibility of computer design. The possibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a large—scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.‘

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different '-”
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
e.g. several single-accumulator computers with common memory and.
the behavior of a computer with multi 1e accumulators. Some of
these properties can be simulate on a 704 by utilization of addi-
tional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear
problems, estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence “
convergence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration.


-5-

Facilities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 704

lectronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as_we11 as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 70h, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorterg reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
machine rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated by
IBM.

The Type 70M EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and 4
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel: Su erviso and Administrative Personnel Associated with

the Project

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director 0 t e Compu a ion Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since

 

differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his

Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since

1931, with occasional leaves or absence. His publications include
thebooks "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration

and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman Feahbach)
1953, and about a hundred Journal articles, many of which give re—
sults obtained from machine computation, For further biographic
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Deplltwont at MIT
since 1938. He got his PhoD. in Mathematics from MIT
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for ‘
(19h9), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis“ (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research Journals, Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Progect.

    
   

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who will head the programming research


-5-

group in the new Computation Center. He obtained his 3.3. in
Electrical Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate
work in Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his
doctor's thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience

in the use of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment
and with Whirlwind I. His salary will be charged to the Project.

Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 19#6, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 19h0.
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the
utilization of various analogue computing equipment--differentia1
analyzers, etc., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 704. He received
a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 19u0, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1936, and a Sc.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center“s Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the center (see Appendix A) will be
available for advice and cooperation. From time to time, if one
of them can supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may
be charged to the Project.

_Full—Time Members 2: the Project

These will include some former members of the Whirlwind
programming research group, such as Frank Helwig and Sheldon Best,
and others. Some of the best of the IBM research assistants at the
Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate periods, at
full time, after they have finished their graduate work and relinquished
their assistantships.


-7-

Budget for 1256-1251
(ONE and NSF combined, 1/2 to be charged to each)

Salaries
Fractions of Salaries of Senior Scientists

Principal Investigator (8 per cent of
312,500) 3 2,000

Other Faculty Members
(1/) of 39,000 and 1/3 or $7,500) 5,500

Salaries of Full-time Staff

3 Senior Investigators (at 37,500) 22,500

2 Junior Investigators (at $6,000) 12,000

1 Secretary-Typist (at $3,000) 3,000

1 Technician (computer, programmer) 5,000
Total Salary $50,000

Overhead (see note at end of budget) 20,000

Permanent Equipment

(desk computers, special input equipment,

etc.) 6,000
Expendable Equipment 1,000
Travel 2,000
Publication Costs . _QZQQQ

Total Yearly Budget 380,000

(see note on next page)


-8-

Since the staff will be acquired in 1956, some of them
being transferred from other projects between July and December

1356, expenditures for the first year 1956—1957 will be about
3 h of the above yearly estimate. $60,000.

One half or this contributed by NSF $30,000
Requested for year beginning July 1, 1956.

Note 92 Overhead: The suggested overhead is larger than most NSF
grants. In the present case, however, the research is intimately
dependent on the functioning of a large computing center, most of

the support of which will be borne by other sources. It is necessary
and appropriate that NSF contribute, to some extent to the operation
of the Center, the services of which this Project will use continually.
There is no simple procedure for itémizing this-cost as a direct
charge, so it is included as an increase in the usual overhead.


APPENDIX A

MEMBERSHIP 0F M.I.T. MACHINE COMPUTATION COMMITTEE
Prof. Philip M. Morse, Chairman Physics

Prof. Samuel H. Caldwell Electrical Engineering
Prof. Herman Feshbach Physics

Dr. Jay W. Forrester Electrical Engineering
Prof. Francis B. Hildebrand Mathematics

Prof. Chia-Chiao Lin Mathematics

Prof. James B. Reswick Mechanical Engineering

PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITIES AND INSTITUTE REPRESENTATIVES

Bates College, Prof. Karl S. Woodcock, Head, Department of Physics
Bennington College, President Frederick Burkhardt

Boston College, Rev. William G. Guindon, Head, Department of Physics
Boston University, Dean Duncan E. Macdonald, Graduate School

Bowdoin College, Prof. Reinhard L. Korgen, Dept. of Mathematics
Brandeis University, Prof. David Falkorf, Dept. of Physics

Brown University, Prof. William Prager, Chairman, Physical Sciences Coun.
Dartmouth College, Prof. John McCarthy, Dept. of Math. and Astronomy
Harvard University, Prof. Guy H. Orcutt, Dept. of Economics

Middlebury College, Dean John G. Bowker, Prof. of Mathematics
Northeastern University, Prof. Martin w. Essigmann, Head, Dept. of E.E.
Tufts University, Dean Leonard C. Mead, Graduate School ,

Univ. of Connecticut, Prof. Ralph J. Kochenberger, Dept. of Engineering
Univ. of Maine, Dean Ashley S. Campbell, College of Technology

Univ. of Mass., Prof. John H. Karlson, Dept. of Elec. Eng.

Univ. of N. H., Prof. Robert B. Davis, Dept. of Mathematics

Univ. of R. I; .

niv. of ermont, Prof. Ivan R. Hershner, Chairman, Dept. of Math.
Wellesley College, Prof. Janet Guernsey, Dept. of Physics
Wesleyan University, Prof. Hing Tong, Dept. of Mathematics
Williams College, Prof. Donald E. Richmond, Chairman, Dept. of Math.
Worcester Polytechnic Inst., Prof. Richard N. Cobb, Dept. of Math.
Yale University, Prof. A. J. J. van Woerkum, Dept. of Astronomy

W. WW%*/ﬂﬁfm


