April 26, 1261

MEMORANDUM FOR DR, PLOE

With the letter of March 30, 1961, signed
by Professors Fano, Morse and myself, we enclosed a
copy of Professor Teager's report, but not the final
copy of the report, reflecting more accurately the
majority opinion. I am transmitting this report to
you herewith, I believe that this concludes the
documents which I shall forward to you.

I can assure you that my opinion concerning
the need for strengthening computer facilities at M.I1.T.
has been enhanced during the past few weeks, Although
there is a split in the Committee's report, I again
suggest that their agreements are much more important
to the problems of M.I.T. than are their disagreements,

I think M.I.T. should strive very hard to
realize the establishment of a computation center much
greater than our present facilities with the 709 and
with the to-be-expected 7090.

I have suggested to the members of the original
study group that copies of all reports be distributed to
a group of about twenty-to-thirty people at M,I.T., who
have a deep interest in and appreciation of these problems.
I would also suggest that other copies of the report be
put on file in the RLE headquarters for distribution upon
request. I have made these statements clear to as many
of the original study group as I could find, and I think
they understand them very clearly, and to some extent go
along with them.

The above statements are strictly my own and
not those of Professors Fano, Morse or Wiesner. I believe
that they will not disagree with me but if they should so
choose, I trust they will write to you directly.

With the distribution of this report to a select
group, and the establishment of a distribution center in
the RLE headquarters, I trust my task as Chairman of the
Committee has ended.


MEMORANDUM FOR DR. PLOE Page Two

 

I should like to request that we both send
a letter of thanks and acknowledgement to the following
persons, who were the principal members of the working
group. I am enclosing copies of the Suggested letter
signed by me,

Professor Dean N. Arden
RLE and EE Department
Professor Michael P, Barnett
Solid State Physics Group
Professor Jules Charney
Meteorology Department
Wesley Clark
Lincoln Laboratory
Dr. Fernando J. Corbato
Computation Center
Professor Jack B. Dennis
RLE and EE Department
Dr, Phyllis A. Fox
Computation Center
Dr. Daniel Goldenberg
Instrumentation Laboratory
Professor Ronald A, Howard
EE Department
Professor John McCarthy
Computation Center, RLE and EE Department
Professor Marvin L. Minsky
Computation Center, RLE, Math, Department
Professor Norman A. Phillips
Meteorology Department
Alexander L. Pugh, III
Industrial Dynamics Group
Douglas T. Ross
Electronics Systems Laboratory
Professor Herbert Teager (Chairman)
Computation Center, RLE and EE Department
Professor Victor H. Yngve
Department of Modern Languages and RLE

I am also enclosing a written Transcript of a
conversation I had with Professor Charney during the
Centennial. I believe this underlines the needs of M.I.T.
in the big computer field. To paraphrase the written word,
I say that it creeps up on you.

Sincerely yours,

AGH: bl A, G. Hill
ce: Profs. Fano and Morse

Dr. Wiesner
Enclosures


Transcript of conversation held between Dr. Hill
"and Professor Charney during M.l.T. Centennial

 

Hill: How big a computer could you use, all by
yourself, twenty-four hours a day, to
pursue meteorological problems? Assume
that you have all the operational help
you need.

CHARNEY: I probably could use a 7030 if : I wanted
to devote all of my time to it - which
I do not, I would like about cone hour
per day on a 7090 for everyday use and
indefinite time on a Stretch Type
occasionally.

Hill: For instance, say you were willing to
devote all your time. Would the above
statements change?

CHARNEY: Yes.
Hill: How?

CHARNEY: The 7080 now, Stretch later, say in five
years.

4/26/61

AGH: bl

cc: Profs. Fano and rse
Dr, Wiessner


