-2-

The American lathematical Society offered its SpONsSor=
ship ef-fthe-—conference and made available the staff of its
central office in Providence, R.I., headed by lts Bxecutive
Director, Gordon L.Walker, to handzle the administrative and
financial matters. iiith their efficient aid, the National
Science Foundation was enlisted to finance travel and editorial
‘expenses, the Shoreland Hotel in Chicago, Ill., was chsen for
the locatlon and June 2=4, 1960, for the date of the Conference,
Appendix A is a copy of the propossl sent to the Natlional Science
Foundation, which was approved and thus enablalthe Corference
to be held.

ATTENDANCE AND AGLNDA,

A total of 95 participants attended the Conference, 26
from the northesstern states, 14 from the southeast, 31 fron the
middle west, 6 from the northwest, 11 from the southwest, 5 ivom
the west coast, 1 from Canada and 1 from the Netherlands.,
Appendix B is a list of these participants. Most of them are is
charge of @enters with equipment the size of the IRl 650, but mo:t
of the larger Ccenters were also represented; thus the Conference
was representative of all parts of the country as well as of all
sizes of Computing Centers.

The agenda of the meeting, given in detail in Appendix
C, provided time for general discussion of the major wpids of
interest as well as opportunity for detailed discussion in
smaller groups. During the first day agreement was reached on
the topics which were to be discussed in the later sessions and
the division of these topics into five groupings, which could be
dealt with in detail by five panels. During the second day the
- Conference split into these five Panecla:

1. Computer-oriented Research (what are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of computing
machines? How are students to be attracted to these areas?)
Panel Chairman, W.B.Kehl, Univ.of Pittesburg; Cochairman, R.H.
Rymevr, Novil western Uuiy,

2o Curriculmum and Instruction (what sort of courses are
being offered in Computer Science and what others should be