Dr. J. E, Robertson, Chairman
ACM Program Committee
University of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

Dear Dr, Robertson:

read by one of the undersigned.

 

SFB:gn
Enclogure

February 27, 19357

Sincerely yours,

8. F, Best
A, Biegel
F, W. Helwig

Enclosed in quadruplicate are copies oi an abstract and
a summary of a proposed paper entitled ‘MIT's Post-Mortem Routine
for the IBM 704, ' to be given at the June meeting of the ACM,

The described routine was prepared jointly by the staff
of the Computation Center, and the paper, if accepted, will be


oR ON 3 te 3
. = ov ah NAL
: AS ip peas
Cy, - “Sn EN, 2 ot
LL Ro a ray : »
. - = : .
Ung 0 TN oy oe . =:
IA ik x vor
, Ns
©

Plgital Computer Laboratory
Massachusotis Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetis

SUMMARY OF

MIT'S POBT-MORTEN ROUTINE FOR THX IBM 704

Abstrac

RL AE A i « Gast

50 facilitates program ghecost at the MIT Compatation
Center, a post-mortem routine for tae IDE 704 hus been
written. It priate or punches specified ranges of core
Bemory in any of the varicus forms sccepted as inpat by
the Buare Assembly Program; for example, as symbolic
instructions or as floating point susbers. The routine
is normally comtrolled by symbolic request cardw, which
look much Like Shave symbolic casds; but it Ray also Le
controlied napually from the console. Plans for integia-
ting the assembly program and the pust-sortes routine into
& single system will be briefly discussed.

| 52


Preseat Houtine

4 post-mortem routine hap been written at MIT for the IBN 704
computer. The main feature of this routine is that its output is in
the same language in which the progrusser codes. That is, it priate
or punches the contents of core aemory (and we plan tv extend this
soon to include tapes and drums also) in any of the various forms
accepted as input by the Share Asssubly Program.

The ranges to be printed and the forms in which they are to be
printed may be specified either manually at the 704 comsole or by &
symbolic request card. |

These symbolic request cards themselves look like four address
share symbolic imstructions. Whea referring toc core memory, the first
two addresses specify the initial and final addresses of a rasge to be
printed or punched. These addresses say be any expressions possi-~
bly involving symbols which the post-mortem routine mast translate
into absolute numbers using a syabol table read in slong with the
symbolic veguest cards, (Such a eymbol table is produced by the as-
pembler when the program being checked out is ssseabdled,)

Toe third address specifies in which of the following forms
the output will appear:

1) Instructions with symbolic sddresses, (The ability
to obtain symbolic addresses ack again wo regard ag the most impor-
taut feature of this routine.)

2) Instructions with absolute addresses.

3) Decimal floating point numbers.

4) Decimal fixed point numbers with scale factors.

§) Decimal integers.

@) Octal iategers,

7) Binary coded decimal, i.9., charactors on the IBN
Zeypanch woyboard.

&) Binary casds.

Re ae Ee a] -

i. %e probably will prepare a few slides to illustrate the syubolic
regueost cards aud the priasting they produce,


The fourth address specifies on which of the following output
units the output wili appear:
1) The on-line printer,
2) The on-line punqi,
3) A magnetic tape recorded for printing using the tape-~
to-printer,
4) A magaetic tape for pusching usiag the tape-to-punch.

The operator bas the ability to chsage from wn-iine to off-line
and vice versa.

Remarks placed on the symbolic request card or on a special re-
marks card reappear at start of the output for that request to pro-
vide for labeling results.

in use, the post-mortem routine is stored permanently of a tape
unit sod celled inte operation by pushing the load tape button at the
console or by the programmed equivalent to this, As the post-aorten
routine comes into cores, all but five registers of core memory ars
saved by writing them on another tape unit. Also, insofar ap it is
possible, the status of the varicus indicators and registers of the
arithmetic olement aye saved and later recorded at the start of the
PATDUE

Finally, there is a request card which will cause core ReROYy
and the arithmetic element (except for the HY and instruction loos
tiom counter) to be yestored to their original values and ccatrol to
be transferred to any dosired address.

Fature FOVORGNTS
The first improvement we wish to make is to provide for post-
sorteming topes and drums, We also wish to modify the Share Assea-
bly Program so thet it will recognize post-mortem request cards aod
compile suitable calling suguences which, when executed, would call
the post-morten routine ato storage to do the desired post-aortea.
This was the reasen we chose to uge the Share symbolic card format
for the request cards. Also we wish the ussembler to store the
syabol table oi tape so that it will not be necessary to read it
in from cards each time a post-morten is to be dono,


