Extension of NSF G2940 Page 8
Enclosure B, Continued

Dr. Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
ocperations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 1946, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1940,
In this capaeity he has hagd considerable experience with the .
utilization of various analogue computing equipment - differential
analyzers, etc., as well as a complete line of d%ﬁital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 7T04. He received
& B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Se.D. degree in Eleetrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Projeet.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teachling and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematies Department at
MIT since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT 4in 1940.
He is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers"
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematles" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis” (1956) as well as a number of articles in
varicus research jcurnals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind Pro-
gramming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and will head the programming research group
in the new Computatlion Center. He obtained his B.S. in Electriecal
Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate work in
Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his doctor's
thesls in PMathematics. He has had extensive experience in the use
of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment and with
Whirlwind I. A fraction of his salary will be charged to the
Project.

Dr. F. J. Corbatd, whose primary responsibility will be the
administration and supervision of the IBM research assistantship
and assoclateshlp program of the 23 New England colleges at the
Center, will also carry out research and do consulting on research
problems, especially in the physical sciences. He received a2 B.S.
in Physice from the California Institute of Technology in 1950 and
a Ph.D. in theoretical solid state physics research at MIT in 1956.
During 1951-56 he was a research assistant in machine computation
and numerical analysis at MIT and is now a Research Associate at
the Center. Part of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center will be available for
advice and cooperation. From time to time, if one of them can
supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may be
charged to the Project. '

i