is big enough and fast enough to begin to be able to
compute the fantastically complex motions of air
masses over the country, so as to predict what they
will do tomorrow from what they are doing today. A
member of the Applied Mathematics Department at
Brown University is making more accurate calcula-
tions of the electron distribution in complex atoms.
Members of the Nuclear Engineering Division of the
Chemical Engineering Department have used the
computer to help design neutron shielding for the
new M.LT. nuclear reactor, and will use it again to
help determine the reactor’s operating characteristics.

Each of these problems has required months of
planning and coding before it was ready to be put on
the machine. This pioneer work will help future
users; many of the tricks of machine use and routines
for computing various functions, developed for these
programs, will be useful in other problems. An im-
portant task of the staff of the Center is to collect
useful parts of successful programs, and to simplify
and codity them so they can be used by others on
similar problems. As time goes on, the task of pro-
gramming will thus become easier.

In addition to computing, the machine can perform
speeded-up or simulated experiments. For example,
the probable behavior of a line of cars in a vehicular
tunnel has been programmed. The machine is given
the probable reaction of a driver to the behavior of
the car ahead of him, as it speeds up or slows down
or comes too close. These reactions have some random
elements, so a preset randomness also is programmed
into the instructions. Using these instructions, the
machine then records the positions and speeds of each
of the several hundred cars in turn and determines
the position and speed each will have a second later.
Going thus step-wise, the machine can work out the
trafic flow pattern, indicating when hold-ups will
occur and computing other over-all characteristics.
In other words, the machine will simulate the actual
traffic flow, will combine the assumed behavior of the
individual units (the cars) to obtain the statistical
pattern characteristic of the ensemble.

The procedure has many uses. If the statistical
pattern coincides with measured data on actual traf-
fic flow, we can be fairly sure our assumptions as to
individual behavior are correct. Or we can vary the
rules for individual behavior and thus see whether
changes in speed limits, or required car spacing, or
other unit behavior will improve the dynamics of the
whole.

The M.L.T. Operations Research Group is also set-
ting up a program to simulate the inventory system
of a large industrial concern having hundreds of dit-
ferent stock items, several warehouses and with the
usual variability of demand and supply. Here one
can determine how various policies for stock reorder
and shipment influence the probabilities of. st.00k
shortages, or the cost of inventory and of distribu-
tion, for example. New stock control policies can.bc
tested in the laboratory, so to speak, instead of using
the organization itself as the subject of the experi-
ment.

A group in the Economics Department at Harvard
is working out an ambitious program to snmulat.e the
economic history of a segment of the population —

____————

 

the growth of a small town, for example. Working
from the statistical behavior of individuals (their
probability of salary raise, of buying a house, of mar-
riage, and so on) as a function of age, salary, actions
of others, and so on (including the inevitable random
factors as well) they are programming the machine
to work out the entire economic interdependence,
the group dynamics of the selected population. To
follow the histories of from 3,000 to 5,000 persons
will take all the facilities of the 704, and very caretful
programming at that, to get answers in a reasonable
time.

Although we can easily understand or specify the
component parts of a complex system, we do not
always (or, indeed, often) foresee all of the capabili-
ties of the assembled system. This failing on our
part makes necessary the job of the test pilot and
explains why new automobile models are not always
the wonderful performers they were expected to be.
Chemists and physicists have long been aware that
the understanding of the behavior of aggregations of
atoms required more than a knowledge of the be-
havior of individual atoms. Gibbs, one of this coun-
try’s foremost scientists, spent his life developing the
theory of such large aggregates, called statistical
mechanics.

Usually the mathematical techniques required to
predict the characteristics of large aggregates are
more difficult than the mathematics required to de-
scribe each part. Certainly, at present, mathematical
techniques are inadequate to go back and forth from
the characteristics of individuals (their preferences,
capabilities, and interactions) as studied by the psy-

PHYSICAL PROCESS

RECOGNITION OF BASIC PROBLEM

MATHEMATICAL STATEMENT
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
FLOW CHARTS
MACHINE DIAGRAM
CODING SHEET

TEST SOLUTION

MACHINE TESTING

ACTUAL MACHINE SOLUTION

OPERATOR INSTRUCT. OPERATOR'S
MANUAL

A schematic flow chart indicating the steps to be taken in
getting the computer to solve a problem.,

3