| :
e
& :

B e
&:3 =N
ey

 
 

- much the same.

~ Now automatic business

at the university are showing
over the job of figuring, zipping through
long columns of numbers in split seconds,

giving the right answers immediately.

Farmers can get latest tests back within 10
days. %
, The university ﬁeeps records for 238 herds

on & demonstration basis and 1s proving 4t

practical. How far IBM will go now toward
keeping more records and better records is
up to dairymen themselves.

Some explorations are being made to see
if a co-op can be set up to do the job. So
‘far nothing definite has appeared. The uni-
versity'’s demonstration project is scheduled
to end this summer. :

“Maybe the time has come 'to review the
entire testing program and see if we can
devise a better one,” says E. E. Helzer, head
of dairy husbandry.

The way is long but it leads upward.
Wisconsin has 13.9 percent of its cows on
test, compared to 10.4 percent'\in 1955.

[From Systems Magazine for March—April

g : 1958] :

~ ELECTRONIC EVALUATION OF ANTIBIOTICS
(By Ben Kruse)

Machine accounting methods,are playing
an important role in a “series of medical
studies designed to speed sclentific evalua-
tion of the so-called “wonder"” drugs.

The efficiency of these medical marvels has ;

been proven beyond dispute, but it is cer-
tainly common knowledge that penicillin, as
one example, does not work equally well
against all bacterlological infections and
that streptomycin is highly effective in some
cases, less effective in others. If reliable sta-
tistics could be developed covering experi-
ence with each drug in a variety of circum-
stances, medical sclence would take a big
step forward.

One man, believed to be the first medical
researcher in the country to apply electronic
data-processing methods to the evaluation of
antibiotics, is making a strong ‘effort to pro-
vide these statistics. He is Dr, Sol Haber-
man, head of the Bacteriology and Immu-
nology Laboratories of the Department of
Pathology at Baylor University Hospital, Dal~
las, Tex.

Dr. Haberman has already enjoyed a good
deal of success with his techniques. The
basis of his work is a continuing series of
studies covering all patients with bodily in-
fections either admitted to Baylor Hospital

,or treated in its clinics.

Specimens are taken from the patient,
from which a culture of bacteria is grown
in Dr. Haberman's Laboratory. Spread
across a clear plastic plate containing nu-
trient agar, the growth of bacteria can be
observed by the technicians.

Onto this agar surface are then pressed
a series of tiny, round paper dlscs impreg-
nated with the 13 basic antibiofic drugs
that could be prescribed by physicians. The
reading of the test is fairly simple—the drug
specimen which develops the zones of inhi-
bition is doing the best job of killing the
germs,

VALUE OF TESTS ESTABLISHED

The value of such tests, which Dr. Haber-
man's department completes within 36 hours
after a patient is examined, has been proved
beyond any doubt. A series of control sta-
tistics were kept from 1951 to 1953. During
this time, the death rate was approximately
75 percent lower for patients treated on the
basis of these findings than for other cases.

From this, Dr. Haberman has gone on to
projects aimed at carrying these benefits
several steps further. Through the years,
the Baylor Hospital staff has performed more
than 6,500 such tests, enough to serve as
a valuable statistical sampling. Obviously,

-

.

- CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE > . May
T4 \ » . / t \ . A : AN 2 . o - ,
 welgh a day & month. Basic methods remain  if charts could be developed showing thea SOUTH AMERICAN GOOD-‘\~_1; NILL

& TOUR OF THE NEW YORK PHIL-

degree of effectiveness of 13 different anti-

(IBM) blotic drugs on the 29 deadliest bacteria
ey can take known,

they could be used as a guide by
doctors anywhere.

“Before these charts could be created, how-

ever, Dr. Haberman was faced with a dis-
tressingly practical problem—there simply
wasn’t time to do the necessary arithmetic.
Obviously, the counting and sorting problem
is enormous, as witness just one phase of
the work:
' Dr. Haberman is studying 29 separate types
of bacteria. These have to be evaluated for
13 drugs, resulting in 377 calculations. Then,
for each drug,.there are 4 different degrees
of effectiveness, bringing the calculations to
1,408. To trace seasonal patterns, it is ad-
visable to compute the effects for each
month (16,896). Breakdowns should also be
made for illnesses among men and women,
for different parts of the body, and accord-
ing to the age of the patient. The compu-
tations runeasily into the hundreds of thou-
sands and even into millions.
To try to do this work by conyventional
methods s all but unthinkable, especially
when the medical value of the staff people
who would have to tie up their time is con-
sidered. - More than that, the work would
require years of effort. By the time any
figures could  be developed, they would be
outdated by new. bacteriological reactions,
and new drugs which would be developed.
To be truly effective, the job must be done
quickly as well as accurately.

Dr. Haberman consulted with data-process=-
ing specialists from Remington Rand's
Univac punched-card record services office
in Dallas. With their help, he developed a

- system whicH promises to bring the valuable

charts into being in the near future.

Figures compiled in'the laboratory are
sent to the P-CRS office, where they are
punched into cards. A counting sorter in
his own office enables Dr. Haberman to sort
the cards at high speed into any desired
sequence. Computations can also be made
at high speed by P-CRS as necessary, reduc-
ing the mountain of statistics to manageable
proportions.

This work could well lead to an effective
method for monitoring the health of the
entire Nation. It offers twofold benefits:

1. It serves to keep score of diseases with
which mankind is currently plagued.

2. It will help alert the medical profession
to the influx of new germs before they multi-
ply to the point where they are dangerous..

National authorities who have reviewed Dr.
Haberman’s methods are greatly encouraged
by the beginning he has made. He has con-
sulted with 3 good friend and associate, Dr.
Charles Cotterman of the Wadley Research
Institute, whose specialties are genetics and
statistics. They have worked out a plan
under which the work could go forward at a
greatly accelerated pace.

- PLAN TO USE COMPUTER

The doctors envisage working out the more
complex figures on the Univac 120 punched-
card electronic computer at the service bu-
reau. Preliminary discussions have already
established that the problems involved could
be worked out in short order, Dr. Haberman
has, little doubt that the Univac could sig-
nificantly speed his work, to the benefit of
the Nation as a whole.

Spurred by the proven success of his work
at Baylor Hospital, Dr. Haberman is making
every effort to bring his long-sought compre-
hensive charts to reality. The only thing
that could stop him is the chronic shortage
of funds characteristic of almost every hos-
pital, and most research efforts. Given the
proper financial backing, however, he is con-
fident that he could make available a set of
vital statistics which would soon be reflected
in the speedier recovery of dndividuals in
every State of the Union, from a variety of
often baflling diseases.

¢

S

   

HARMONIC ORCHESTRA

Mr. KEFAUVER. Mr. President, the
luckless visit of the Vice President to'
South America has received so much
attention in the press that most Amer-
icans are unaware of the present South
American goodwill tour of the New York
Philharmonic Orchestra and its con-
ductor, Leonard Bernstein. :

In contrast to the difficulties which
beset Mr. Nixon, the Philharmonic Or=-
chestra has been received with out-
standing acclaim. It is interesting to
note that some of its greatest successes
have been achieved in cities in which
Mr. NixoN had the most violent of his
troubles. :

The New York Times on May 25 car-
ried an article by Carlos Moseby on the
Philharmonic’s mission. I ask unani-

- mous consent that this thought-provok-

ing article be printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows: ;

THE PHILHARMONIC HATH CHARMS—IT Has
PROVED ITSELF A CULTURAL EMISSARY IN
LATIN AMERICA

(By Carlos Moseley) \

LaAPaAZ, Borivia—The first of the special
DC-6's transporting the New York Philhar-
monic swept down over the lower reaches
of Lake Titicaca past 20,000-foot snow-cov=
ered peaks to the world’s highest commercial
airport ot La Paz, which has an elevation
comparable to Lhasa in Tibet. Several hun-
dred Aymara and Quechua Indians broke
away from the thousands at the airfield
awaiting the return of the former President
and surrounded the orchestra men, shouting
welcome.

Immediately a loudspeaker asked that no
shots be fired in greeting, lest crowds lining
the roadway leading to the city below might
think the airport was involved in the ex-
pected political uprising. Even before the
second Philharmonic plane arrived, the re-
volt flared. The Government declared a
state of siege and put La Paz under martial
law. Business came to a complete standstill.

Schools were closed and several citiés fell 2

temporarily into revolutionary hands.

In one spot, however, activity went on
uninterruptedly at a feverish pace. The Mu-
nicipal Theater was in the final stages of-
being rebuilt by the city for the Philhar-
monic’s visit. The plaza before it was paved
and the lamp posts were installed and cov-
ered with silver the next day. The opening
concert took place on schedule before a
packed, noisily applauding house, with the
President of the Republic, Hernan Siles Zu-
azo, in the center box.

This incident was another dramatic illus-
tration of the extraordinary journey of the
Philharmonic through South America where,
often coinciding with local disturbances or
tensions, the orchestra has been treated as
an’ emissary transcending strife; as one of
the most, if not the most important cultural
events of recent times, not to be missed for
any reason, and as an indelible bond be-
tween the countries visited and the United
States.

MILITARY RECEPTION

In Bogota, as another instance, the or-
chestra arrived on election day. It was the
first free election in a decade. Two days
after the crushing of a police revolt and the
release of Kidnaped members of the gov=-
erning junta, the Philharmonic stage crew,
instruments and baggage, were met at the
theater by bayonets and machine guns as

fpart of the aftermath., Despite the stress

o~

 

<

g

L / o

o bt n A BN