V-z—

operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and social sciences and in engineering.

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the
participating colleges would Join it for a semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full—time at the Center.

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. We believe that a contribution of
about $100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the re—
search carried on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges. We list later in this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects will develop naturally from these and
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center.

The project would not start at full strength.‘ The 70% will
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. We estimate that a total budget of $60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, $90,000 for 1957—58 and $100,000
for 1958—59. Details are given later in this proposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the program should be rewevaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONE and NSF, we are requesting financial support
from both agencies, an a? share rom each. We believe the work
can be divided so ' cts can be written. Some of
the proposed tasks though some of the broader
fields of investig We would hope that we could