Reprinted from JourRNAL oF ApprLiEp Prysics, Vol. 22, No. 3, 282-285, March, 1951

Copyright 1951 by the American Institute of Physics
Printed in U. S. A.

A Theory of the Envelope Type of Thermal Conductivity Tests

ArTHUR L. LOEB
Department of Metallurgy, Division of Ceramics,* Massachuselts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusells

(Received July 12, 1950)

The well-known problem of the end effects in a cylinder of finite length has been circumvented by the use
of spheroidal rather than cylindrical apparatus. After a general theory of heat flow is given, applications
demonstrate the mathematical difficulties caused by discontinuities in the curvature of the surface of the
heat conductor. The suitability of the spheroidal shape is demonstrated, and corresponding heat flow equa-
tions are derived demonstrating the effects of the variable distance between any two isotherms on the amount
of heat crossing any unit area of an isotherm. It is proven that the amount of heat flowing through a slice of
a spheroidal isotherm made perpendicular to the axis of the spheroid is proportional to the width of the
slice, and independent of the position of the slice with respect to the spheroid. This theorem is applied to
find the heat distribution necessary to keep the core of the apparatus at uniform temperature. Because all
measurements are made at thermal equilibrium, a rough estimate is given for the time necessary to reach

equilibrium.

INTRODUCTION

NE idealized experiment for the measurement of

thermal conductivity of ceramic materials at a
high temperature consists of surrounding an infinitely
long, uniformly heated cylindrical core by a hollow
cylinder of the ceramic, and using the cylindrical form
of the heat flow equation in determining the conduc-
tivity from the average temperature gradient across a
certain distance in the ceramic.

The greatest deviation from idealized conditions is
due to the finite length of the cylinder; and the present
paper aims to justify the choice of an envelope in which
the location of the isotherms, as well as the heat distri-
bution necessary to keep the core heated uniformly, can
be controlled. Whereas initially it was thought that
hemispherical guards at the ends of the cylinder could
be designed in such a manner that all lateral flow in the
cylinder could be stopped, the analysis given below
demonstrates that no such guards could eliminate non-
radial flow entirely, while most heat will flow out per
unit area through the guards, so that special precautions
would have to be taken to prevent their cooling. It was
therefore decided to streamline the apparatus into a
spheroid, for which heat flow equations are derived
below.

TABLE OF SYMBOLS

A =area of isothermal surface.

a=semifocal length of spheroidal coordinates.

subs a, b, refer to ceramic and insulating layers, re-
spectively.

subs 1, 2, 3 refer to the surfaces separating core, ceramic
layer, brick layer, and surroundings, respectively.

h*=thermal diffusivity.

k=thermal conductivity.

n(z)=number of windings around core per unit axial
length.

dQ/dt=total amount of heat crossing isotherm per unit
time.

* With funds from the AEC, contract AT(30-1)-602.

r=radial coordinate.

{=time.

u=1isothermal coordinate.

v=coordinate of flow.

W =heat crossing surface per unit area per unit time.

s(u) =steady-state temperature function before heating
core.

T (u, t)=transient.

z=axlal coordinate.

6= temperature.

0.=final temperature of core.

£=const.: equation of spheroid.

n=const.: equation of hyperboloid of revolution.

e=angle about axis of symmetry.

y=azimuthal angle.

A =solution of Laplace’s equation.

A. GENERAL THEORY

In the envelope type of thermal conductivity tests a
temperature gradient is maintained across the material
to be measured by construction of a closed vessel with
axial symmetry, the inside of which is heated uniformly,
while the outside 1s kept at uniform room temperature.
The core may be heated either by fitting a metal sus-
ceptor inside and placing the whole vessel in an inductor
coil, or by wrapping platinum wire about the core,
heating it by means of the heat developed in the plati-
num resistance.

The material to be measured may be surrounded by
an insulating layer of brick in order to allow higher
mean temperatures in the ceramic layer. The conduc-
tivity of the ceramic material is found by measuring
the temperature gradient set up in it by a known quan-
tity of heat flowing across it.

The shape of the core is arbitrary, and is chosen to fit
experimental convenience. The heat flow should be per-
pendicular to surfaces with a discontinuity in conduc-
tivity, so that the surfaces #=wu, and #=wu; in Fig. 1
are determined by the thickness of the layers “@’” and
“b” as well as the shape of the core. Therefore, we use

282