COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Minutes of the Tenth leeting
Academic ZIear VhHE=t 652

Persons Present: S. H, Caldwell, Richard Bootcn, H. Feshbach,
FIR : J. W. Forrester, H. R. J. Grc3zh, J. A. Hrones
C. ¢. lin, P, M. Morse, E. Recissner, W. W,
Seifert. gor

The Committee discussed the remainii z caces of ap-
pointments for the following year. Two applicatiors in Mathe-
matics , Bennington and Archer were discussed Dy the Committee
send were left for Reissner and Lin to make final declsion on
whether or not they were to be appointed. It was elso agreed
that the Physics Department would appoint H..<tory to take the
place of the earlier appointment of A. Duren, now deceased.

The discussion then turned to the question of the
preliminary courses in Numerical Anglysis to ba given naxt
year. Reissner and Lin reported that there was some feeling
that the first-term course should be an undergraduate senior
course rather than a graduate course. This wes discussed,

The Committee did not come to any final conclusion, but there
was some feeling that it might be better to heve both courses
listed as graduate courses at least at firat (particularly since
M351, the suggested prerequisite, is a graduals course). |
My. Grosch discussed the subject matter of the course he was
interested in giving and suggested that he pe:iaps should give
the first term snd Professor Hildebrand the s¢ zond rather then
the revarss. The consensus of opinion of the ~ommities peamed
counter to this 1dea. It-was suggested that { »oseh and Hilde-
brand get together in the near future to ses 1 1ther a combined
scheduls of two one-term courses, with Hildeb: and giving the
first course, registered in the Mathematics D¢ yartrent, and
Grosch giving the second course, listed in the Electrical

. Engineering Department (at least for the firs! year or 80)
could not bs worked out. Morse expscts to hezr from Grosch

and Hildebrand next week.

Professor Hrones and his assistants in the Flight
Simulator Project discussed the development oi thelr project
and indicated that they were anxious that the squipment involved
be made available for educational and gsneral resesreh activitie
of the Institute. Morse outlined the activities of the Committe ,
indicated that it was possible that some of the assistantship
finaneing controlled by the Committee might be useful in support
ing some men working with this equipment for zdvanced degraes,

BT


B=

and asked whether come of the new assistants arriving this summer
and fall could be trained in the use of the equipment. Hrones
and Seifert and Booton indicated that this was possible and Morse
said that when plang for the summer and fall could be worked ous,
he would get in touch with them agaln to see =sbout details.

The next meeting of the Committee ill be on May 7,
at 2 p.m,

NE AN NAS

Morse
Che irman
Meeting - 4-16-52
Dictated- 4-18-52


