Pr. A. P. Ershov
Computation Center
Aecademy of Seisnces
Moscow

. 5. 8. R.

D‘ar Dro EI’S}AQ\;‘: |

I am writing to invite you to give a series of ten lectures on your work and that
of your colleagues in the Soviet Unioa in the areas of rutomatic programming from
the point of view of the ""programming programs" for Strela and DEIM and the
theoretical work going on in this area, that has, for axample, been published in
the Problemy Kibernstiki, at the University of North Caroliazs from waguat 17«28,
Yonmmr Hussian or (preferably for us) Snglish.

I am also iaviting Professor Kaatorovich of the vaiversity of Leningrad to give
a similar series of lectures on linear programming, fuactional analysis, an
automatic programming of the "Prorab" type,

5 ($1,000), pluz money
200, Out of this vou
will bave to pay U. 8. incoms taxes which will amount to less than $100. You
would be expecied lo furnish your own transportation betweaen the U. 3. 3. R.
and New York and return.

You will be paid the standard honorarium for vouy lecture:
for expenses in the United Stutes ($200), for a total of 21,

w & - N

Your visit will be 50 timed that you will be able to attend with me and Professor
Perlis of Carnegie Tech the Mational issecistion for Computing Machinery meeting
to be held in Cambridge, Mussachusetts on eptember 1, 2, and 3. 4s you note,
since last fall 1 have left .na irbor to become Director of our naw Center here.

I am sending copies of this letter and the invitation to Profe sany Kantorovich also
to Academicians Doroduitsin and Lebedev. If it should happen that you and they
would be interested in attendanece of three or four persons rather than just you and
Professor Kantorovich, I would be pleased to he ay further from you and them,

The University of North Carolina will have instzlled on itz campus at the time of
this conference copy of the Univac 1105 compuier now being used by the Bureau
of Census in the processing of the 1960 J S. Census. There is also now present
i Royal McBee LGP-30 Librascope computer on the Campus.