————'

 

 

Other Forms of Claims

All patent claims are not in the form
which was used by the inventor of the ap-
plication we have just analyzed. The Pat-
ent Law allows a great deal of freedom
in choice of how an applicant wishes to
express his alleged inventions. Hence,
in addition to claims of the type or form
here disclosed (i.e., a chain of beads),
other patent applications may present
claims: (1) to a static structure per Se,
e.g., a single bead, or a structural H-
beam; (2) to a mechanical movement
per se, or to an interrelational combina-
tion of such movements, e.g., an auto-
mobile change-speed gearing, or the com-
plete power-path including a clutch, gear-
ing, and differential; (3) to methods of mak-
ing things, e.g., molding beads by an in-
jection molding process; (4) to methods
of using something, e.g., a method of
operating a radar system to land an air-
plane in fog; (5) to an apparatus for
making something, e.g., aninjection mold-
ing machine; (6) to a chemical compound,

‘or a composition comprising several in-

gredients, e.g., D.D.T. per se, or D.D.T.
disolved in kerosene for use as a spray,
etc.

Any of these types of claims may re-
quire the alternative use of some one
thing, e.g., a claim may require either
ethyl alcohol or benzene, but not both,
as alternative solvents in a composition
of matter. Any of these claims may also
require the absence of some particular
thing, e.g., the absence of water in a
composition of matter, or the absence of
heat in a forging process.

What Must Be Encoded

In order to mechanize the examiner’s
search, uniform coding systems will be
evolved, and the patents and publications
in the search files will be encoded ac-
cording to these systems.

The files of classified patents hold the
great bulk of all applied and theoretical
knowledge, both technical and scientific,

 

in a concentrated form. These files
constitute a main source of references
for the examiner. In certain fields,
e.g., chemistry, the nonpatent technical
literature may sometimes constitute the
most important source of references.
The examiner’s classified files are also
reinforced with copies of foreign patents,
and pertinent nonpatent literature refer-
ences. The examiner may also consult
nonpatent publications from other sources
and cite them, if pertinent.

All patentees are deemed, by law, to
have “dedicated to the public” all features
of their disclosures not claimed by them.
Hence, in encoding a patent for mechanical
search, all features of the disclosure,
whether claimed or not, might later form
the basis for the rejection of another ap-
plicant’s claim and must be encoded for
retrieval.

Every disclosure must be retrievable
from any aspect of its structure, use or
function, state of being, color, material
from which it is made, etc. In other
words, after the application whichwe have
analyzed had issued as a patent, if itwere
to be encoded for automatized searching,

there are hundreds of details of the dis-.

closure which must be encoded. A few

of them which may not be immediately"

apparent are:

1. The composition (polyethylene) used
as a bead;

2. the two partbead structure of figure
S per se, and

3. the location of fastening means at
the poles of the bead when the
two part joint is at the equator,

4. the dumbbell shaped connector of
figure 4, with all its details;

S. the extra socket at right angles to
the axis of the other projecting
and socket fastener parts;

6. the use of such a joint in models
used to illustrate molecular
Structures (application paragraph
14, last sentence).

7. the elongation of the neck of the
p.rojecting fastener part (applica-
tion paragraph 13, last sentence).

 

 

8. the use of the same sizeq fast-
eners with different sized peadg-
and )

9. the use of different sized fasteners
for different sized beads; and

10. the disclosed modes of assembling
such beads in sets;

11. the use of multicolored beads;

12. the modified conic-spherical head
of the projecting fastener part;

13. a rigid structure of two sphereé
connected by a cylindtrical mem-
ber;

14. a socket with resilient edges; and

15. any other aspects which were found
to be dimensionally disclosed in
the drawing, or specifically re-
cited in the specification and
claims.

If the search on the bead application
were to be performed mechanically, then
each of the references which the examiner
cited would have had to be encoded in a
manner providing for retrieval of the
portions of the disclosures for which they
were cited. |

Encoding Problems

Problems' in encoding are often en-
tangled in semantics. The obvious con-

flict of synonomous terminology for the

same thing presents no real problem--
one synonym is chosen. However, we
might find one disclosure of a mechanism
which alternatively holds a shaft from
rotation or connects it to another rotat-
ing member and call it a clutch; a sec-
ond disclosure with an identical structure
will call it a brake; in a third disclosure
such a structure will be called a clutch-
brake combination; while a fourth and
completely different disclosure of a sheet
metal bending machine will also call the
disclosed machine a brake. In one of
these disclosures a clutch may be mis-
named a brake. Now, the essential sub-
combination structure of a clutch may be
used as a brake, and vice versa, but
when this structure is disclosed or claimed

 

 

irr:3 ; IIs environment, i.e., in the inter-
neCatlonal Combination of other structure
€ssary for its use, it is either a

Clutch or 3 brake, and must be encoded

for what it i
18, rather than it i
called. what it is

In the same manner, if one member is
described ag larger than a second, we
I;grsrtlb el;esablﬁ fo retrieve the second
i ot Ogla er bthan the f1rst.; if a heaF-
- metg)nurcprs efore a rolling step in

gical process, we must be
able. to retrieve a rolling step following a
heating step; etc.

The problem of a generic search must
be emphasized as essential in Patent Of-
flcg searches. In the case of the appli-
Cation which we analyzed, the examiner
not only searched for beads or similar
elements with similar separable joints,
but he looked for all types of interchangea-
bly fastened, concatenatable elements.
When a search is being made for a num-
ber of different elements or aspects con-
currently, the coding system must be
such that the search for one of the elements
Or aspects can be broadened. For ex-
ample, a searcher looking for a desired
composition including ethyl alcohol as an
ingredient, must be able to find any al-
cohol as an ingredient in another compo-
sition which is identical except for the
alcohol, if ethyl alcohol has never been
disclosed with the other ingredients of the
desired composition. And, similarly, a
search which includes as an aspect, all
benzene compounds in a specified com-
position must retrieve phenol inthis same
composition.

A disclosure of a process of and/or
an apparatus for molding beads is clearly
a reference for a molded bead. A dis-
closure of spraying tomato plants with
nicotine for insecticidal purposes, and a
disclosure of the process of making an
insecticide from tobacco leaves, are both
references for the use of nicotine as an
insecticide.

In a like manner, the chemist searches
not only for the exact composition, but
for the equivalent or alternate ingredients
in equivalent compositions; the metal-