@

liinutes of the Fourth Mesting
of the
Committee on Hachine detnods of Computation
‘Decenber 13, 1950

Persons P_ggggnﬁz G. S. Brown, . Feshbach, Z. Xopul, C. Lin
P, I..Morse’and B, Haissﬁsr g <

Kopel listed the courses given in the Electrical Engineering
Department in this general subject. There zre four courses, 6.531
= 6.534, inclusive, which Kopal gives. These cover mainly the
fundamentals of Numerical Anslysis with a certain amount of
laboratory work to develop fezcility in the use of desk m&chines.,

| _KOpal fesls that these courses represent a bare minimum of train-

ing to get & person started in the field, and that it would be

‘desirable to have further more-advanced courses if we wish to ex-

pand our graduate training in tnls field.

-~ Another four courses given in the Electrical Engineering
Department ares 6,535, given by Welchman, on coding for digital
machinesy 6.536, given by Caldwell, on analogue maciaines; 6.5387T,
given by Verzuh, on the design of machine components; and 6,56,
given by Gullleuin, on methematical circult theory, which con-
talns some aspects of the design of machine couponents. In eddie
tion, there is course M54, Mathematicel Laboratory, given in tihe
Bathematics Departuwent, which is quite unconnected witi these
other coursses. The gensral feeling of the Committee was that
consliderable discussion will be required to declde what further
courses should be suggested, out that eventually furtiner strength
would be needed in a wore-advanced course, Or Courses.

Professor Brown arrived at tals time, and the discussion
turned to the qguestions of the graduste students considered last
time. Ue reports thut Professor Thomas is in cinarge of prepara=-
tion of the written examination for the klectrical Enginsering
Department for February. Professor Brown will suggest to Pro=-
fessor Thomas that he get in touch with Feshbaci, Lin, lorse,
and helssner wita regard to collection of guestions for the
sgecial exeminatlion in February for Booton and Carrus. Kopal
will talk to Booton &nd Carrus to let thew know the general sub-
Ject matter of the speclal exuminztion. Professor Brown will
discuss the other cuases mentioned in the minutes of the last
meeting with the graduate coumittee of tune Electrical kngineering
Departuent this Toursday end will report back on the other ques-
tions mentioned in the lest minutes.