m is. nae

 

Dr. J. V. Carr, [II
Department of Mathematics
Univorsity ox North carolins
Chapel Hill, north carolina

Dear Dr. Corr:

last summer Mien ! was at indieott at the In conference
for Directors of University Computing Centers, 1 was asked to do
some thinking about organising further meetings oi Directors of
these Centers and, in tact, whether it would be appropriate tor
such Directors to organise themselves into a tor-ml or internal
society. 1 have hesitsted tor some tile as to whet action is
spproprinte, partly because I an mildly opposed to proliferating
additional societies or conventions and, partly because I have been
extremely busy this year. It was, however, suggested that a. meeting
or people interested in this general field might be arranged either
before or after the AC! meeting here this fall. A recent talk with
the local Progra- COIIittee for this meeting. however, discouraged
this action and I an sosenhat at a loss as to where to go next.
Consequently, I an writing for your advice.

It is pertectly true that the Directors or university
computing centers have problems which are not touched on in the
present mu meetings or in other computer meetings. They are, of
course. more in the nature 01 administrative problems, although
these certainly can be real. Whether they-:oould hewhelped by
having occasional meetings at which these problems can be discussed
or whether they can be taken care of adequately by informl discus—
sion at meetings such as the ACM, I am not sure. It is possible, if
only occasional meetings would be useful, that the National Science
Foundation mid be willing to be of financial help. What is needed,
however, is some indication from you who are directing university
computing centers as to the need for such a meeting and the possible
agenda, if it is needed. There is to be an Eastern computer Conference
in Cambridge later in the year. This meeting could be scheduled
near it, if such action seemed appropriate. 0n the other hand, there
may be advantages in meetings separate from such large convocstenns

st some quiet spot where we could talk things over at leisure. Or,
of course, we should not meet at all.


Dr. J. I. Cu-r. In a. ' ' , In; is, 1359

I I111 b0 nun It tlu ml cantor-14cc In June no", I a.
sun, the tone nu an up quill. I mm «mm: 3”?“th
your cm" on this ”new quiet-n, partleululy n my on
use) I. Mon Jun. 15. ' , . , '

Stncouly ,

Philly l. Ibru, Director
PHI/b1


