a 5
SRE

re

 

-.

Ne Gln +N
LER

tf


| ——

pr—
== =

   
 
    

Z era)
Fo ATS Ce RU SENS TVS LIOTE OF (c(iVOTUL) SJ

 

 

 

 

 

Ere—r ee

=~
|

   
 

Ll i |e ni.
Te RG “3
oi Red) wn
oi ee "
mi .
| 1
pA AA Rr wow verb IH LL ’ wei - J

V . ar | Pa Weivie

] [i
ITLL TL
|
— | J a Be

I ——— a.
Pere TI COC CCR ee
a = adalat dil

‘a NT TRILL

 

—
8

FT

     
  
   
 

 
 

 

  
 
 
 
 
   

   

 
 
 

   
  
   
   
  
  
  
          
  
     
  
      
   

 

A

f—"
rr

President 3

? gs Admissions 3
iy Rr wt 2

TOT, te lag +s Bursar 4

1 - - ’ A a AR Wy i, . fr hy
rT A rk Vegi arts TRE IRATE SR Pe cr 4% )
uP . ve . ~ ’ yy : PY . : .
rete ve PR oe ‘ . Registrar 7
Bay» ’ . FO a .

onc

r
0 oro Ty _

  
 
 
 

 

wy

SEN oR Acronautical Engineering

AE Wright Brothers Wind Tunnel 17
hae Supersonic Laboratory 80

Air Science and Tactics

, Architecture and Planning

£.. Biology

« -*+ Building Engineering and Construction

fi) HA rr TE "Ar ’ vt Te
vet k Le TI I ry tne th Ca re
rill AP un, #2 Le -
a TIE lire Ye, ‘e
At A 1] bya Ti 2

Tl
ger dev vr” ‘
re AE 25.
N ; CTI Wri,”
‘ 5. ’

 
    

 
 

itd

ip y pete

Nr Pl LA ‘7 «9

te” arrir tay . sary reas Poe

ai pity Ap TE IANA SA Hp yn (En * >

2 Ly ‘ ts arr ty ll rn ny, ress
“J er, Vou 4 . ‘re ip . > - eo

en 8 . ‘
Wel "lt . RY
z . ae y cr, ’,

 

 

Bere “+. Buildings and Power
7 oe i cae 7 Service Building 30 '
Tv = PZ “itt, 4, Power Plant 37
an Swe epiinglee,, a ree, <4, , "77... Business and Engineering Administratior
i : Tors reson Pn 2 : Sli Ii e Cu ag er = foe go Chemical Engineering 12,3
HP pra Th ga se Eg A Sete, 5 pre NH Hr TAH wt Wel X17, Chemistry ‘
THE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, an institution devoted to the advancement and development of science and MUSEUMS Throughout the corridors are display case
- repye . . . . . . A ile Se h - o - € > c y a
technology, was founded in 1861 by William Barton Rogers, a distinguished natural scientist and its first president. Today taining exhibits appropriate to the departments in whick
with an enrollment of 5,300 students, M.1.T.’s graduate and undergraduate schools offer twenty-one programs of study, with are located. These are integral parts of the Institute Mu
many options, in the fields of science, engineering, architecture, city and regional planming, industrial management, and the the Dein) parts of which are listed below. In addition t
; , : : : gies : a ps Ing exnibits ] i 1 : ' :
related humamties. M.1.T. 1s justly proud of ils record of leadership in these fields, having pioneered in the establishment Sn 4 il SOVSTINg 8 wide Tenge of shown pe
lr a Ah ; : \ > lobby of Rogers Builc 7).
of such courses of instruction as architecture; electrical, chemical, aeronautical, and sanitary engineering; meteorology; food NEW G ai 7d S ne ( ng )
tec hnology; and naval architecture and marine engineering. ii EW SALLERY ( Open weekdays Yam. tod pm, Saturday and :
: — ¥ AY vde ’

In this gallery are shown distinguished fine arts colle
brought together especially for exhibitions here.

~ SLOAN AUTOMOTIVE MUSEUM ( Open during regular Institute
Furst floor, Building 31, just inside main entrance.) An exhil

~~~ In general, though wnth some exceptions, the Institute’s educational plant 1s confined lo the Fast Campus (the area
east of Massachusetts Avenue) while living and recreational facilities are on the West Campus. The main educational group,
centering around the Greal Court, is a single continuous structure, but il 1s divided for convenience into numbered sections

( A »» : riers . : it : ‘ .
referred to as buildings.” Rooms are numbered according to building and location in the building. The first figure indi- historical : ;
cates the building, the second, the floor, and the last two, the room. Thus Room 10-250 means Building 10. second floor. istorical and modern aircraft and automotive power |
r 50). : ie ase : HART NAUTICAL MUSEUM ( Ope . stitute
bu 50 7 main Institute buildings are open weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays (excepl dunng the summer), Room 5-126.) A aoe! Tt {Opn Going om be
9am. tol p.m. DOTATAS To :
p contemporary and historic ships. Here and throughout some

by corridors are also displayed a number of prints fro
Allan Forbes whaling collection and the Clark collect

INF( YRMATION OFFICE (Room 7-111. Open weekdays 8:30 a.m. Central Library and five divisional libraries: CENTRAL LIBRARY, marine prints.
to 5 p.m. Closed evemings, Saturdays, and Sundays; see doorman at this second floor, south wing, Building 14 (Hayden); ARTHUR ROTCH
location.) Located in the Lobby at the 77 Massachusetts Avenue LIBRARY OF ARCHITECTURE, Building 7-238; DEWEY LIBRARY OF INDUS KRESGE AUDITORIUM (Open for inspection during
entrance. On file here are the addresses and class schedules for TRIAL MANAGEMENT, third floor, Building 52 (Sloan); ENGINEERING Institute hours.) The auditorium, with an associated deve
all eUTyCR students and members of the staff. Directories and LIBRARY, Building 10-550 (AERONAUTICS in 33-304); SCIENCE LIBRARY, chapel, was made possible by a gift of the Kresge Foundat
internal telephones are available. first floor, south wing, Building 14 (Hayden). The HUMANITIES Detroit, Michigan. These unique buildings were designed
STUDENT GUIDES are available in the Admissions Office (Room LIBRARY is made up of units on the first and second floors of Build- distinguished architect Eero Saarinen. “The auditorium
3-108) at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. each weekday. They can show you ing 14 (Hayden), including a reserve book and reading room, 1,200, and the Little Theater in the same building accomm
many of the educational and recreational facilities : s Tretitute gallery, the Boston Stein Club Map Room, and the Music Room. 225. The chapel se:
es at the Institute. he Tact 03 000 | k 00 LT | 1apel seats 120.
» y Tho Zs JT : : » > latter contains 3,000 standard and > ~P records, SCOres,
THE] 1BRARY ~The Institute Library of over 500,000 volumes and books about music DINING FACTT ITTES
is one of the leading collections in science and engineering in the The CG : or ef = , : » FACILITIES Although operated for the use
United States. The © ; : ; 2 I he General Library is open daily from 8:45 a.m. lo 9 p.m., Saturdays MIT. {arralv : fobaeis ee
States. The CHARLES HAYDEN MEMORIAL LIBRARY 1s the center Oam tod Yosod- S es ter IH A ity 1.1. family, the Institute’s cafeteria-service dining
9am. to 4 p.m., closed Sundays. Divisional library hours vary SLgnity welcome visitors. Meal hours vary in each location and :

ol the Institute hibrary Svstern hic 18 C } n d hy be che ke e
§ c : 1 which 1S organized aro /
A = ’ C u d a an S > Checke ) 21 .
< hould be checked with each ranch. esi C d ther .

  
  

 

    
   
 
    
  
     
  
  
   

    

  

— = —

os ha - ee
— TE ——————— ~— — pe R————
—_—= Comes — a

'
i

   
   
    

 

 

 

   

 

 

- —_—— — _— ———
re Er a =r — J
aE. === 3
=oul Lae = = 1
- a —— i Ye Te —  —— » .
- - ra == 3 i (Y= nif
-— ~— —— == eS 4 J fay Ta a - “ tel
—— —_—— — a [11] i 1 I Af) I 4 fo
— - —_— =e i 15 PHY 2S Ay ~5
“= 2} ——rm mer Te ont " ”
SR. STS TCI p RL lea Ae ASN SEE
2 _— aa MARR NO Ah

   

ANTI vile @ ®

rt TE

- " Gy J 2)
; Wl; 8, {a ET SA
=3 fil A

 

— 3
Ee on
a r=,
TaN
x way Tr x a . .
- PgR An

A SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT
THE KRESGE AUDITORIUM AND
THE M.1.T. CHAPEL

The Kresge Auditorium and the Chapel are units in a center on
the west side of Massachusetts Avenue devoted to student life out-
side the classrooms. Construction of a student building 1s
contemplated.

The Auditorium is unique in that its dome, a triangular curved
slab of concrete with a load of 1,500 tons, is supported by the three
corners. These rest on massive buttresses. The dome represents
one-eighth of the surface of a sphere.

The concrete at the top of the dome is only 3-1/2 inches thick.
In proportion to its area, it is thinner than the shell of an egg.

Layers of glass wool and cinder concrete on the dome insulate

© Auditorium Iron noise; heat and cold. e suriace 1s ol a ncw
material, acrylic plastic mixed with Fiberglas, beach sand and
other materials, used for the first time on any building.

Interior walls of the Auditorium are not connected structurally
with the dome, permitting it to expand and contract with the
temperature. The space between the dome and walls, as much as
six inches. is filled by rubber gaskets. On the left is a choir loft
and on the right a loft for the Walter Holtkamp organ. The stage
curves outward to provide visibility from all parts of the Audi-
torium. and curtains move on curved tracks. Acoustical design was
so carefully worked out that a pin dropped on the stage can be
heard in any seat.

Responsible in part for the good acoustics are the “clouds,”
rectangular baffles suspended from the dome which reflect the
«ound and also serve to mask air conditioning and lighting equip-
ment. Refrigeration machinery which cools the Auditorium during
the summer also serves to make ice on the adjacent skating rink
during the winter.

The Auditorium was one of the first buildings wired for tele-
vision broadcasting. There are points at which as many as six TV

(continued on the reverse side of this flap)


SOLU) 0

 

 

FEE

nud

 

ira,

EPS A

and manne engineering.

weekdays 8:30 a.m.
see doorman at this
lachusetts Avenue
lass schedules for
. Directories and

bons Office (Room
ley can show vou
es at the Institute.

or 500,000 volumes
engineering in the
BRARY 1s the center
ranized around a

 

  

ll Ned er

r exceplions, the Institule’s educational plant is confined to the East Campus (the area
living and recreational facilities are on the West Campus. The main educational group,
7 single continuous structure, bul it is divided for convenience into numbered sections
¢ numbered according to building and location in the building. The first figure indi-
r, and the last two, the room. Thus Room 10-250 means Buildine 10. second floor.
are open weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays (except during the summer),

 
         

  

Tp

 

Y mm

AE
TET ot

i tia
rE ries
T= be 7 :

—~.y
.

"hte ” -
20 TPA Pd RL 7

~ . -

-“- t.

TECHNOLOGY, an institution devoted lo the advancement and development of science and
illiam Barton Rogers, a distinguished natural scientist and its first president. Today
M.I.Ts graduate and undergraduate schools offer twenty-one programs of study, with
engineering, architecture, city and regional planmng, industrial management, and the
yroud of its record of leadership in these fields, having pioneered in the establishment

tecture; electrical, chemical, aeronautical, and sanitary engineering; meteorology; food

Central Library and five divisional libraries: CENTRAL LIBRARY,
second floor, south wing, Building 14 (Hayden); ARTHUR ROTCH
LIBRARY OF ARCHITECTURE, Building 7-238; DEWEY LIBRARY OF INDUS-
RIAL MANAGEMENT, third floor, Building 52 (Sloan); ENGINEERING
LIBRARY, Building 10-550 (AERONAUTICS in 33-304): SCIENCE LIBRARY,
first floor, south wing, Building 14 (Hayden). The HUMANITIES
LIBRARY 1s made up of units on the first and second floors of Build-
ing 14 (Hayden), including a reserve book and reading room,
gallery, the Boston Stein Club Map Room, and the Music Room.
The latter contains 3,000 standard and 500 L-P records, scores,
and books about music.

The General Library 1s open daily from 8:45 a.m. to 9 p.m., Saturdays
Yam. to 4 p.m., closed Sundays. Divisional library hours vary slightly
and should be checked with each branch.

 
 
  

  
  

 

a.

    
   
 

 

  

MUSEUMS Throughout the corridors are display cases con-
taining exhibits appropriate to the departments in which they
are located. These are integral parts of the Institute Museum,
the principal parts of which are listed below. In addition travel-
ing exhibits covering a wide range of subjects are shown periodi-
cally in the lobby of Rogers Building (Building 7).

NEW GALLERY ( Open weekdays 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday and Sunday
" # .: ” . . : “ . .

  

> J >

 

. , s
In this gallery are shown distinguished fine arts collections
brought together especially for exhibitions here.
__ SLOAN AUTOMOTIVE M1
First floor, Building 37:
historical and modern

ISEUM (Open during regular Institute hours.
Just side main entrance.) An exhibit of
aircraft and automotive power plants.
; HART NAUTICAL MUSEUM ( Open during regular Institute hours:
a al but outstanding collection of models of
BY cor é ne Istoric ships. Here and throughout some near-

ors are also displayed a number of prints from the

A { y 7 ‘ 3
lan Forbes whaling collection and the Clark collection of
marine prints. =

KRESGE AUDITORIUM pas

an aL D) TORI M (( Jpen_ for inspection during reoular
a Lo, Ihe auditorium, with an associated devotional
Detroit Michioa. Powinls by a gilt of the Kresge Foundation of
distinguished 3 Bs 1es¢ unique buildings were designed by the
chitect Eero Saarinen. The auditorium seats

1,200, and the Lj T

y € e Little heater in tl . en . ‘1-3

T : « 1e same building accor ates
5. The chapel seats 120 g accommodates

DINING FACILITIES
I family,

welcome visitors. Mea
checked there

Although operated for the
Institute's
| hours var

use of the
cafeteria-service dining halls
y In each location and should

 

| MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

        
     

  

   

A

    

fred P.5\00"
MN Eaiding

3 nous ’~ od CD x
\, Tenn h 2 YA) Xo 4
tp EE [| . ~A FA Hl a : 3 —
aa “ wl Le TT >
5.00) =

 
  

x Pd

FARE LL pahiee” YA pS TI qn pi TT pk My hm se A :
\ VEE Oe ES LA TR
ei = ET Sdn - ont i) 3 2 7 5 DIRECTORY °. ) oy, tats ers : wid, has rs oA
F TL BTR Gt Ae Fp NE oy Tg 23 <2 ore SE ly,
— Es ~~. Acoustics Laboratory 20F Civil and Sanitary Engineering 1,5 Medical and Infirmary re "n
7. ~.-% Administration 3 Hydrodynamics Laboratory a8 Metallurgy 4
Z President 3 Economics and Social Science 52 Metals Proce Lob 8
Admissions 3 Electrical Engineering 3,4,10, 20 5 Yong aly 3
oh i Bursar 4 High Voltage Laboratory 24, 28 Meteorology 24
3 : ; Registrar 7 Servomechanisms Laboratory 32 Military Science and Tactics 20E
TT : Acronautical Engineering 33 Digital Computer Laboratory BARTA Modern Languages 14N
a "Wright Brothers Wind Tunnel 17 Electronics (Research Laboratory of)  20A Naval Architecture and Marine Engr. ~~ §
¢-2.0n La Supersonic Laboratory 80 Food Technology 16 Ship Model Towing Tank 48
Air Science and Tactics 20E Geology and Geophysics 24 AT
rs A Pc 5.7 Gratin: ; phy 3 Nuclear Science (Laboratory for) 20B
a > Biology 16 Humantics 14N Cosmic Ray Laboratory 20B
me % ++ Building Engineering and Construction 5 Center for International Studies 52 Cyclotron 44
> rs Buildings and Power 24 Industrial Management 52 High Voltage Laboratory (Physics) 46
io 7 Service Building 30 Libraries 10, 14, 33, 52 Synchrotron ~~ 24
Nh, Power Plant 37 Mathematics 2 J :
: “v.07. Business and Engineering Administration 52 Mechanical Engineering 1,35 12-MEV Generator — 58
= 8 Hee xz Chemical Engineering 12, 31, 35 Sloan Automotive Laboratory 31 Physics 4,6
ors Re By 1% Chemistry 2,4,6 Gas Turbine Laboratory 31 Spectroscopy Laboratory 6

WALKER MEMORIAL Walker Memorial is the student
center. The great central room, Morss Hall, is an undergraduate
dining hall during the day and at night is often the scene of
smokers, meetings, dances, and other social activities. :

In the rear of the second floor is Pritchett Lounge, a unique
student night club, open also during the day for sandwiches
and snacks. On the top floor is the gymnasium. In the basen)

g the building are offices
student organizations.

STUDENT HOUSING Of the Institute’s 5,300 students,
about 3,000 live on the campus or in nearby fraternity houses
and clubs. The area to the west of Massachusetts Avenue, know
as the West Campus, is devoted almost entirely to living an
recreation. At its western extremity 1s a development of houses
and apartments for 270 veterans and their families known as
Westgate and Westgate West. =

The Alfred E. tor House. most recent addition, os
accommodations for 610 students. The Everett Moore a er
House, for 350 students, is a complete unit with its ov hin
hall. It exemplifies a new and forward-looking approac es
problem of student housing. At the corner of Massacl La
Avenue is the Graduate House, home of some 450 gra
students.

The East Campus Houses, where
are located near Walker, where dining
provided.

ATHLETIC FACILITIES Equipment and f
sports are located on the campus.
ALUMNI SWIMMING POOL (Open for inspection.
only, 8a.m. to 9 p.m.; for women, inquire at pool office.
and staff and their families may use the pool dunng

    

 

720 undergraduates live,
and social facilities are

cilities for all

weekdays, for men
Alumni, students,
pecified hours On

   

 

——

 
 

THE KRESGE AUDITORIUM AND M.I.T. CHAPEL

(continued from the reverse)

3
cameras can be plugged into the system. Television control trucks ad
can be parked in the service driveway in the rear and plugged in |=
without any special installations. A television cable runs direct to

= € nearby studios of WGBH.

Beneath the Auditorium is the Little Theater, designed for
intimate dramatic productions and small conferences and concerts.
There are also two rehearsal rooms in the basement.

While the Auditorium is very modern in concept, the cylindrical
brick Chapel has such ancient antecedents that many people do not
associate its design with traditional church architecture. Incor-
porated In its planning were many new ideas.

Eero Saarinen sought to provide a building which could be
used by all of the faiths represented among the cosmopolitan
student body of M.I.'T. and which would not be identified with
any one of them. He wished to create an atmosphere that would
be conducive to worship and contemplation by the students.

Windows were not included in the design for the reason that the
architect felt the chapel should be a sanctuary from the outside
world—a place from which noise and bustle would he excluded.

Instead of windows, there is a ceiling port through which a shaft
of light streams down on the three-ton block of white marble which
serves the various faiths as an altar. The brilliance of this light is
enhanced by a screen, designed by the noted sculptor, Harry
Bertoia, of glittering gilt bits of metal brazed to vertical rods. These
gilt reflectors are more dense in number toward the base, tending
to keep attention attracted toward the altar.

Additional light is admitted to the chapel through horizontal

panels of glass concealed behind oak wainscoting. Licht reflected

~~ Irom the water in the moat passes through these panels and falls
upon the walls in shimmering patterns.

One enters the chapel through a rectangular narthex with walls
of gray stained glass, which accustoms the eyes gradually to the
dimmer light inside and provides a transitional passage from the
distractions of the outer world to the contemplative atmosphere of
the sanctuary. The architect once described this entry as “a sort
of decompression chamber.”

The Holtkamp organ, a Bach type, is situated in a small loft
over the entrance to the chapel. The serpentine form of the brick
walls contributes to the excellent acoustics. Other acoustical devices
include the use of sound absorptive material behind brickwork
grilles.

In the basement are robing rooms for the clergy of various
denominations. Religious articles used in services are carried to
the altar by a small elevator.

The aluminum bell tower for the chapel, taller than the build-
ing itself, was designed by Theodore Roszak, a sculptor.

In addition to sudent services, the chapel is used for weddings
and other special occasions. Organ recitals are included in the
program for use of the building.

 
  
 
  
 
 

3
;

La


__is the home of M.I.T. crews.

application at the pool office.) A gift of the Alumni, the swimming
pool is one of the best-appointed in the East and an outstanding
building of its type.

ROCKWELL ATHLETIC CAGE (Open from 7 a.m. lo 8:30 p.m. week-
days.) Although its primary use is for indoor athletic practice,
the Cage is the largest gathering place at the Institute, third
largest in the Boston area. As a consequence it is the scene of
convocations, graduations, and other major events.

BRIGGS FIELD AND FIELD HOUSE (Field House open from 7 a.m. to
8:30 p.m. weekdays, except to women.) The Institute’s playing fields
on the West Campus include baseball, softball, soccer, and
lacrosse fields, cinder and board tracks, and tennis courts. Here
are held the home games in these sports, a few of the 18 inter-
collegiate sports in which Institute teams participate.

SAILING PAVILION (Open during the season from 9 a.m. until dark.)
Housing the Institute’s large fleet of dinghies, the Sailing Pavilion
is at the edge of the Charles River Basin directly in front of
Walker Memorial. Both as a competitive sport and as recreation,
sailing is by far the most popular single student activity. Inter-
collegiate sailing had its start at M.I.'T., and the fleet is the
largest of its kind.

BOATHOUSE (Open 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. weekdays.) Located on the
Charles River west of the Supersonic Laboratory, the boathouse

HOCKEY RINK (Open during the season from 10 am. to 10 p.m.)
Inquire at Briggs Field House concerning the schedule of general
skating.

SPECIAL LABORATORIES As a center of research in

science and engineering, M.L.'T. has a great number of labora-
tories. In addition to those in general use, most of which are
open during regular Institute hours, there are more than 70
special laboratories. Some are open for inspection at stated
times, such as Open House and on the occasion of visits by cer-
tain groups. In general, however, because of the nature of the
equipment and the impossibility of interrupting many of their
operations, these laboratories are not open to the public. A few
of the more highly specialized are:

SUPERSONIC LABORATORY (Building 80) At the extreme end
of West Campus, this building contains the largest of the
Institute’s four supersonic wind-tunnels.

WRIGHT BROTHERS WIND TUNNEL (Building 17) Immediately
behind the Guggenheim Aeronautical Laboratory which contains
two other wind tunnels, this is the Institute’s largest low-
speed tunnel.

COMBUSTION LABORATORY (Building 31, west) On the third
floor of this building are the new facilities for studying the
combustion of fuels in many types of applications including jets

 

and rockets. Many of these facilities are unequaled at any other
educational institution.

SLOAN AUTOMOTIVE LABORATORY (Building 31, east) Here is a
center of research on internal combustion engines.

HYAMS RADIATION LABORATORY (Building 28) In this small
building directly behind the Gas Turbine Laboratory the applica-

tion of high-voltage X-rays to cancer therapy and sterilization
of food and drugs is studied.

CYCLOTRON (Building 44) On the opposite side of Vassar Street
is the Institute’s cyclotron, one of the first in the country. It is in
continuous use, principally for the production of tracer elements
for medical and other researches.

HYDRODYNAMICS LABORATORY AND SHIP MODEL TOWING TANK
(Building 48) At the corner of Vassar and Main Streets is the
Institute’s latest facility for research in the mechanics of fluids.

OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH ACCELERATOR (Building 58) Located
near the Swimming Pool is a unique structure housing the largest
of several Van de Graaff electrostatic generators in use at the
Institute. This has the highest energy rating of any similar
generator in the world.

SYNCHROTRON (Room 24-041) A 350-MEV accelerator of
electrons, the Synchrotron is used in nuclear studies.

WEATHER RADAR LABORATORY (Room 24-520) Here storms
are tracked by radar as a means of studying and predicting
atmospheric phenomena.

SERVOMECHANISMS LABORATORY (Building 32) Research and
development of automatic controls for industrial production
and military systems are conducted here.

ACOUSTICS LABORATORY (Building 20F) This laboratory is
devoted to research on the properties of sound waves of all
frequencies in solids, liquids and gases; speech analysis and
synthesis; acoustic instrumentation; and acoustic design and
noise control.

DIGITAL COMPUTER LABORATORY (Barta Building, 211 Massa-
chusetts Avenue) A short distance up Massachusetts Avenue
is the center of research of one of the world’s largest high-speed
digital computers.

THE KARL TAYLOR COMPTON LABORATORIES (Building 26) Soon
to be erected, this will become the center for M.1.T.’s electronic

and nuclear research. Headquarters for these activities are now
located in Building 20-A and 20-B.

RESEARCH LABORATORY OF ELECTRONICS (Building 20-A) A
basic research center continuing the developments begun by
the famous Radiation Laboratory of M.1.'T. during World War 11.

LABORATORY FOR NUCLEAR SCIENCE (Building 20-B) This lab-
oratory conducts a broad program of research in many buildings
throughout the East Campus.

tt

 

PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS For those interested in
Admissions, the Admissions Office is the place to go. ( Room 3-708.
Open 9 am. to 5 p.m. weekdays; not open Saturdays.) The Director
o Admissions or one of his assistants will be glad to answer
questions or to discuss educational plans. Among the booklets
and information obtainable at this office are:

GENERAL CATALOGUE ‘The most complete information avail-
able on curricula, registration, dormitory rentals, and other
particulars of the educational program, designed especially for
upperclassmen and graduate students.

UNDERGRADUATE CATALOGUE (This 1s M.I.'T.) A description
of the educational opportunities, student activities, and living
at M.1'T"., especially for prospective undergraduates.

ON ENTERING MIT. An outline of the admission requirements.

SCHOLARSHIPS FOR FRESHMEN Details of scholarship opportuni-
ties for freshmen.

FOREIGN LANGUAGES Suggestions on the study of foreign lan-
guages in secondary school by future engineers, scientists, and
architects.

PRE-MEDICAL EDUCATION AT M.IT. A leaflet outlining suggested
courses of study for the undergraduate student anticipating
graduate work in the field of medicine.

HUMANITIES AND SCIENCE A leaflet describing the new oppor-
tunities open to students interested in combining basic and
advanced subjects in one field of science or engineering with
one of three fields of humanities.

 

Photon typography and production by the M.1.7T. Photographic Service.


