Minutes of Meeting of Committee
on
Wachine Methods of Computation
November 29, 1950

Members Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, 4. Kopal,
P. M. Morse and E. Heissner

Professors Kopal and Forrester presented the Commlttee
with the general subjects which are included in the Electriceal
Engineering general doctor's examination. They come under
nine general headings:

N =

Circuit Theory

Power Machinery
Magnetic Clrcuits
Engineering Electronics
VT Circuits

Electrical Measurements
Transmisslion Lines
Basic Physics 1

Basic Physics Il

O 00 -3 G U\

After considerable discussion the Committee felt that probably
a man taking a doctor's degree in the E. E. Department, with
specialization in computing macuines, sihould be required to
pass en exanination in the mzjority of taese subjects, but
tnat perhaps one-third of them could be dropped &nd in thedir
place more material on Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
could be required. It was suggested tentatively that power
machinery and electrical measurements umignt be dropped, and
that in their place questions coula be asked on differential
equations, complex variables, algebré and numerical analysis,
corresponding to about the length and deptn of the questions
on the two omitted subjects. In adaition, it was felt that
Basic Physics IXI could be somewhat remodeled to include more
of Theoretical Physics, particularly of electromagnetic theory
then is given to most of the E. E. candidates. 1t was felt
that the Commititee should discuss this with Professor Brown

at its next meeting, 1f Professor Brown were zble to attend.

The Committee then went on to discuss the four E. E.
doctor's candidates who nuve already teéken their qualifyling
examinuations and are beginning, or are gbout to begin, thelr
thesis research. It was reported that Mr. Salzer already has
a supervisory committee consisting of Professors Kopal, Hazen
and Linville, This was felt to be an appropriate committee
and there was no suggestion to meke any change here., In the