WA )
i :-‘1 V"‘ p
A
W

i
R

" Thermal Conductivity: V, High-Temperature Met.hod
and Results for Alumina, Magnesia, and Beryllia

from 1000° to 1800°C.

by MALCOLM McQUARRIE

   

standard samples, and thermocouple location in each specimen
lead to precise measurements. : _
(2) The thermal conductivity of melting-point lead varies
from 0.083 cal. sec.~! °C.~! em.~? cm. at 50°C. to 0.077 at
225°C.
(3) The thermal conductivity of Al.O; decreases from

A method of measuring the thermal conductivity
of refractory oxides at high temperatures is de-
scribed. Heat is generated inductively in a
metal susceptor inside a hollow specimen in the
shape of a prolate spheroid, the temperature of
which is measured at two points by means of an
optical pyrometer. The conductivities of alu-
mina, magnesia, and beryllia were measured be-
tween 1000° and 1800°C.

I. Introduction

n envelope type of thermal conductivity apparatus

A was chosen for testing refractory oxides at high tem-
peratures for two reasons. First, any guard method is

basically imperfect and usually it is impossible to determine
the extent of the error introduced by mmperfect guarding.
Second, the guard method requires a large amount of material,
and because of the scarcity of some of the refractory oxides, it
was desired to keep the test specimens as small as possible.
Another reason for keeping the specimens as small as possible
is the difficulty of forming large dense bodies from the pure
refractorv oxides.
A specimen in the shape of a prolate spheroid was chosen in
preference to a sphere because it 1s desirable to read the tem-
perature in the specimen at a point where the isothermal sur-
faces are as flat as possible. This condition, together with
that for a minimum amount of material, indicated that the
prolate spheroid shape would be the best.
The specimen assembly is shown in Fig. 1. Heat is gen-
erated in the core and flows outward through the specimen
and the msulating housing (necessary to attain a high average
temperature in the specimen). The temperature is measured
at two 1sothermals in the specimen. The thermal conduc-
tivity (k) 1s calculated from the equation

k = B — (
P = amount of heat generated in core.
AT = temperature difference between the two isotherms
B = body factor.

The body factor for a prolate spheroid (see footnote 1 be-
low and Part II, this series, p. 73) is

" A. L. Loeb, “Theory of Envelope Type of Thermal C ]
tivity Tests,” J. Appl. Phys., 22, 282-85 (1951). S mduc:

ca rami iety— McQuarrie
84 Journal of The American Ceramic Sociely Q

0.077 at 50°C. to 0.021 at 600°C.; for MgO, it decreases
from 0.088 at 50°C. to 0.026 at 600°C.; for BeO, it decreases

from 0.56 at 50°C. to 0.108 at ('i().0°C.

(4) The values found are h}gl}er the.m most ot.her values
reported in the literature. This 1S attnbu.ted mamly. to the
neglecting of interfacial resistance by previous investigators,

 

 

1 Vit —c vVttt _
B = In ; P = (2)
SxcSENVHYF ¢ +ic Vit cti—ic

¢ = semifocal length of spheroidal system.

r, = semiminor axis of outer isothermal surface.
r» = semiminor axis of inner isothermal surface.
(See Fig. 1.)

II. Experimental

In adapting the prolate spheroid envelope type of thermal
conductivity tester to high-temperature work, two basic
changes from the low-temperature method previously de-
veloped in this laboratory (see Part 111, this series) are made.
First, the heat is generated in the core by means of induction
heating.* Thus the heating core is made of solid molyb-
denum and because of the tendency for this material to oxi-
dize at high temperatures, the entire assembly must be
placed in a vacuum. Second, the temperature of the speci-
men is read with an optical pyrometer. This requires that
holes (tapered to provide a clear line of sight to the pyrometer)
be placed in the specimen and that metal cones be placed at
the bottom of these holes. These cones provide a black body
whose true temperature will be read by the pyrometer.

Since the body factor given by equation (2) above is for a
solid specimen, the introduction of holes into the specimen
changes the body factor, and a correction for this is experi-
mentally determined by comparing the results obtained on

: ‘..-”lf'g essentials of induction heating may be explained as fol-
R &l I “',h‘glrl'f“'(luc‘“(‘y alternating current is passed through
‘Ilftl”l 2 'tl“‘“ set up an alternating magnetic field within the coil.
,d conductor (.callg‘(l the susceptor) is placed in this alternating
En-‘lglitluc e it will have induced in it electric currents known
tl\ _(l-‘](.)"’lcurr(-nt_s, Fhese eddy currents circulating in the ma-
ffild ~mfl cause 1t to be heated by I?R losses. The lagging power
d,u,olll ‘]O }he coil and susceptor is balanced by a condenser in
%(lmft ;‘ ",h It so that the total load is at unity power factor.
h ,).rt°un I}H details on the principles and practice of induction
L;’l( l)ng.(‘l 1lc{rcadcr 1S r(;‘ferrc(l to the following references:
'm}ll‘\ ; G Brown, C. N. Noyler, and R. A. Bierwirth, Theory
L‘ Application 9f Ri“llo-f‘r(‘quoncy Heating. D. Van Nostrand
0. Inc, New York, 1947. 370 pp ‘
) 1 J \ oLk T - . ) )
Gr: \)' l;'il“. (_ur‘tls, High-Frequency Induction Heating. Mc-
’(‘l . I; Book Co., Inc., New York, 1944. 235 pp
c ; ot b e T AL e . A
quh:cv I'I(I)jt'- Osborln,l JT' Principles and Theory of High-Fre-
- y Aeating and Induction Heating srican Society for
.\Ictlulv., Cleveland, 1946. g. American Societ)
G ', ” P y v . :
tio(n )”(:l’l.ti'll‘l.g\éu'g]fll.?l Lm(d J. W. Williamson, ‘Design of Induc-
- - 25 ()l \ ()r 3 'lill(‘ri .; Y . ” S . Q 7 ' [5/(,(.
Eng., 64, 587 (1945), y cal Nonmagnetic Loads,
(e) N. R. Stansel, Induction

: T Graw-Hill Book
Co., Inc., New York, 1049, 919 McGraw-Hill

Heating.
pp.

Vol. 37, No. 2

February 1954 (Part 1I)

N

-

HEATING CORE

 

Fig. 1. Cross section of specimen assembly showing susceptor, specimen,
and insulating housing.

specimens with sighting holes with the results obtained on
specimens in which very fine thermal couples (which were
known to have no effect on the body factor) were used to
measure the temperature.

(1) Procedure

(A) Materials: Alumina, magnesia, and beryllia speci-
mens were investigated at the high temperatures. Chemical
analyses of these materials are given in Table I. Materials
such as zirconia, which becomes electrically conducting at
elevated temperatures, are not suitable for this method be-
cause of the possibility that some of the heat will be generated
within the specimen and not entirely in the heating core, thus
upsetting the theoretical basis of the method.

(B) Sample Fabrication: The specimens were made by slip
casting the ground powders of the oxide materials according
to the usual methods.? Figure 2 is a picture of a mold used to
make the specimens and shows the metal insert for forming
the pyrometer sighting holes.

The specimens were fired to zero apparent porosity at
1850°C. and had a final total porosity of between 5 and 10%.

(C) Assembly: After the specimens are fired, two halves
(one with pyrometer sighting holes and the other without)
are taken and the flat surfaces ground to a good fit. Metal
cones are inserted at the bottom of the sighting holes and
radiographs of the specimen are taken. In addition to pro-
viding information for the calculation of the body factor,
these radiographs reveal any internal flaws in the specimen
which would make it unsuitable for testing.

From measurements on the specimen and the radiographs,
the body factor is calculated. X

The metal susceptor is placed in the specimen (made up. of
the two halves) and the specimen is placed in the insulating
housing. The entire assembly is then placed in the vacuum
chamber. :

(D) Power Measurement: The inductive power is supplied
by a 10,000-cycle 7.5-kilowatt generator. The loa.d is~ bal-
anced to unity power factor (indicated by the I,iss’u\](m figure
on an oscilloscope) by the balancing condenser. Che power
input to the system is calculated from a knowledge of the cur-
rent input and the voltage across the inductor coil. Itcan b‘c
shown* that (to within 19;) the power in the susceptor 1S
given by

])zn Q'

) 9)

1) == (1):“ b -[)u\lt) 1) = ( -
out

Pin = total power input to system with susceptor 11‘1 l')lft“(.or !

P, = total power input (at same voltage) with suscep

moved.

=F o : . . s tire ann: ;‘us,and
Figure 3 is a schematic diagram ol the entire apparat

' . ° ° . Yoy (™ lr-
Fig. 4 is a detail drawing showing the end of the vacuum ft

T'hermal Conductivity, V 89

 

Fig. 2. Mold for making specimens, showing metal insert for
forming pyrometer sighting holes.

 

Table . Chemical Analyses (%) of Specimens
Components Alumina* Magnesiat Beryllial
Fe.O, 0.31 0.05 0.01
S10, .24 .30 00

Ti0, .01 .00

Al,O; Remainder .14 .08
CaO .39

CrgO,: OO

MgO Remainder .18
BeO Remainder

 

* Analysis of raw material; Norton Company Alundum abra-
sive grain 38 X 220F.

T Analysis of raw material.

i Analysis of fired material; raw material, Clifton Products
Company refractory-grade (220-mesh) beryllium oxide.

nace and the sighting arrangement. Figure 5 is an over-all
view of the apparatus and Fig. 6 shows a close-up of the -
ductor coil and sighting window in the end of the furnace.

Ill. Results

Figures 7, 8, and 9 give the thermal conductivity results for
alumina, magnesia, and beryllia, respectively, as obtained n
the temperature range 1000° to 1800°C. The different sym-
bols in each figure indicate experimental values obtained on
different specimens. As can be seen, there is no marked dif-
ference between specimens of the same material. The solid
points of Fig. 7 are for the first specimen of alumina to be run,
and indicate the enormous spread of values obtained before
the careful experimental technique necessary was perfected.

As far as the results of this investigation in themselves
warrant, a straight line through the experimental points 1S
probably all that is justified. However, the results at t.hc
lower temperature (1000° to 1300°C.) must be matched with
the results of the electrical resistance determinations, which
show a decrease with temperature in this range (see Part III,
this series), and since a continued decrease 1s inconsistent with
the present results, it is necessary to draw the curves with a
minimum of conductivity as shown.

2(a¢) F.H. Norton, “Pure Beryllium Oxide as a Refractory,”
J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 30 [8] 242-45 (1947). : L

(b) W. E. Hauth, Jr., “Slip Casting of Aluminum Oxide,
ibid., 32 [12] 394-98 (1949). _

* See Appendix to this paper, p. 87.