Minutes of the Seventh Meeting
Sucof-the - |
Committes on Machine lMethods of Computation
January 10, 1951

Persons Present: C. W. Adams, H, Feshbach, Z. Kopal, C. Lin,
| P, M. Morse and E. Relssner

The Committee continued its discussion of possible courses
at the Institute in machine cslculation. The discusslion re-
ported in the second paragreph of the minutes of the January 3
meeting was not continued in any detall because it was felt |
that there was not aveilsble a faculty member to teach this
course, elther this year or next. It was &agreed, however, that
such a course should be discussed further at & later meeting.
The proposal of Mr. Forrester (mentioned in the first paregraph
of the minutes of January 3) &nd Mr. C. W. Adams, concerning a
laboratory course in digital machine methods, was then dils-
cussed. It was felt that several aspects of the proposal should
be modified before it went on to the Electrical Engineering De-
pertment with the Committee's blessing. Conseguently, r. Adaus
was called and he came over to discuss the matter with the Com=-
nittee, After discussion, it was &greed that Mr. Adams should
try rewriting the proposal and to have Mr. Forrester turn in
his covering letter, plus the revised propossal, in the near
future to the Committee agein. It was felt that the Committee
then would be able to send this propossl elong to the Electri-
cael Engineering Department, suggesting that the course, as
proposed, be given as & special problems course this comlnag
term, and that, based on the experience of this term, the de-
partment and the Cormittee would consider later as to whether
- this should be made & regular laboratory course with a regulsr
- Blectrical Engineering Department number, beginning next year.

The discussion of contract provisions, mentioned in the
third paragrzph of the minutes of Januvary 3, was then taken up.
1t was felt that the Committee should, in the near future, make
& recoumendation to the Provost concerning such contract
provisions. The Chairman asked each member of the Committee to
consider the wording of such & proposal. |

Morse reported that he was to attend the Facult{ Councill
Thursday, Jesnuary 11, to discuss the proposed activity of the