ENCLOSURE B

Excerpts from Ori inal Proposal for Funds
(modified to bring it up to date)

   

   

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research:

 

Research on Digital Computer Operétion and Utilization

Investigation into the patterss of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studles of
numerical analysis and machine programming methods, investigation
of the possibilitles of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such specific applications of
machine techniques to problems in science, englneering, and
administration as will clarify the basic stsmatrulr and suggest new
points of view.

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.

Time Perlod: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research - Background Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its 704 machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
Laboratory, and MIT i1s contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Machine Computation Committee.

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated their interest in parti-
cipating and have appointed faculty members to be their Insti-
tutional Representative. These representatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of their
institution. IBM is providing some funds for stipends for
graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of this research.

 

".;
*
i
3
i

- - . yo. 1" 2N . ‘.‘ A . " wad®
- “MM(M DA ki e T L AT s s Lot o AR O, e -

il :J...J-A.-n%mm@ e ol Db .

R

A r s e Al