though our IBM 704 is now delivered and is in storage at
ay EB Stem of the building to house it has [eave
commencement of the project financed by NSF grant NSF G2940.

11 estimated that only about $8,000 will have ha
Staff members, which were to have been
sf'errec 5 1 © nued on the Whirlwind
ject until the change-over, and most of them will not be trans-

rred until summer. It is therefore proposed that the project be
;inued until June 30, 1958, with an additional grant of only
Br so that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to

1958, we can operate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecas¢. Estimated details of budget
are appended, together with excerpts from the original proposal.

   
   
   
 
 

      
           
         
   

on the SEE sae of She inna sogmmah has gone Sarma
as rapidly as is posiible without the 704 being in, running condi-
A complete utility and a post-mortem program have been

 
       
 

 
 

jeveloped, and tested out on borrowed 704 time, a much more
ible assembly program than at present avallable has been
ready for active coding when our 704 is in operation.
x ons have been begun with a view to investigating the
7 rg of a flexible output equipment utilizing the
photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Many programs
of importance in physics and engineering have been, or are being
translated from Whirlwind language to 7O4 language, such as the
work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. C. Slater
and the large-shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossi. The
meteorology group under Prof. Charney, recently moved here from
Princeton where their work was initiated by Von Neumann, is
planning to use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
| require the advice and help of our staff to program their various
calculations. We will be assisting the Harvard Observatory staff
in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the IGY s8tellite "shoots". Dr. S. Ulam of Los Alamos, who has
been a Visiting Fellow to the Center this year, has been assisting
us develop "Monte Carlo" techniques. Prof. John MeCarthy of the
Dartmouth Mathematics Department (one of the New England colleges
participating in our program) will be here next year and will be
interested in developing machine logic and in further investiga-
tions of the behavior of "automata" by means of simulation pro-
grams. The staff of the MIT library 1s interested in exploring
the possibilities of storing and recovering A — by
machine methods and a project in the MIT Language Department on
machine translation, supported the Rockefeller Poundetiun.
expects to use our equipment to ol their ideas. Other
GR. at the 23 participating colleges, are planning further .
work.


T n- Tor - Or . pa? PNP Vind Ta oe . - ? Th 2 v ¥ 3 i | s Je ge
. . : 5 “dn?
i
Ww iss
oo
‘x
2
.
: . SHES ?
> ,- vo fe ram PY —— ..- -- . m——-. -—
= we
wy
a
ed
oo
3
~~
i
a

 

prasy
best
| oo

 

| \ HORS oem w

! & » { . . a vols : h-

-—
’
.

th, Sh Sp Ph SP Pn 5S. Br iding Boh meet a oh Sed $i Aes fbn Bea BA mina Sema Sen SES Se DE vt


Extension of NSF G2940 Page 3

1,000
34000

8,000
6,000
5,000

26,000

 

  
 

idible equipment and office supplies 500
Travel 1,100
Publication costs 800

 

30,400
Overheat at 15 percent of Total 4,560

  

54,960

Less Estimated Balance of Funds under
Grant NSF G2940 as of July 1, 1957 22,000

 

Additional Funds requested for 1957-58 12,960

 

WA BBD. a Are Ve aon

be


ENCLOSURE B

Excerpts from Original Proposal for Funds

   

   

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Pro

   

posed Research:
Research on Digital Computer Operation and Utilization

Investigation into the patterss of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studies of
numerical analysis and machine programming methods, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such specific applications of
machine techniques to problems in science, englneering, and
administration as will clarify the basic stsmatrulr and suggest new
points of view.

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of

1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research - Background Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its 704 machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Machine Computation Committee.

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated their interest in parti-
cipating and have appointed faculty members to be their Insti-
tutional Representative. These representatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of their
institution. IBM is providing some funds for stipends for
graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of this research.

 

CAT roa ANE € ils Ti Silin I 02s Aa. > a a at AAR EAE tb Fda hh LAE pet ap ns ed IN hE
' 8 : -

A Nels in ctl $0 0 0 AS Btn A

wn ary who dt)

A “ Coa A,


—— A —  ———— tp GT sw 4 BW

Extension of NSF G2940 Page 5

Enclosure B, Continued

In this atmosphere and wlth these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in
all phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
embers and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of their own in machine logic, in tech-
niques of machine computation, and in specificfapplications of

 

   

 

‘machine operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus
appreciably broadening the range of applicability of computers
"in the physical and social sciences and in engineering.

It 1s appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work
will, in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numbri-
cal analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the
other participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground
in new fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing
—_— will be needed in the application of digital computers to
new tasks. |

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various depart -
ments of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of
the participating colleges will join it for a semester or a year,
on leave from their institution, to work full time at the Center.

IBM-and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance and
operating staff of the Center. We believe that a contribution of
about $120,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the
research carried on at the Computation Center by students and
staff of MIT and the particppating colleges. We list later in
thls proposal some of the specific research projects we are pre-
pared to start on. Other projects will develop naturally from
these and from the problems encountered by the other workers at
the Computation Center.

Part of these additional funds can be obtained from some
of the research projects which will use the facilities of the
Center. Although the use of the machine itself will not be
chargeable, most users will need advice from the Center staff as
to preparing thelr programs, will need help in detailed coding
and will prefer to have our staff carry out many of the actual
runs on the computer. This will add to the duties of the staff,
and part of the additional cost will be charged to those projects
which can afford this extra service. Those students and faculty
members who cannot afford to pay for this help will be able to

‘use the machine, but will be expecté@&d to do their own coding,

AT Ba tpt as Es POA Sel wagribrsind ot 187


Extension of NSF G2940 i Page 6

Enclosure B, Continued

unning of thelr problems. We

r can come from payments from other

ramming service described, leaving about
btained from other sources.

  
 
 
  

The Rockefeller Foundation has granted the Computation

ut $100,000 for three years, Beginning July 1, 1957,

support of a staff to investigate applications of

igital computers in the social sciences. Thus only about

535,000 a year is needed to complete the support of the Center

staff, enough to support that part of the staff concentrating on

the physical science aspects of the activity. In order to get

our plans well under way, this grant should be continued for

about three years (as with the Rockefeller grant), after which
rogram should be re-evaluated to determine needs beyond

 

  

 

   

 

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input languages;
the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical, logical or
business language. ;

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and auto-
matic error analysis.

5. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more
general expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomial sums for
simulating standard functions by a common block of instructions
but small sep2rate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and
methods of automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial
plus Richardson extrapolation or other means.

4. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems. |

5. Extension and/or imppovement of present techniques for
communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible
improvements in input-output equipment.

6. Experimental analysis and control using data trans-
mitted directly between computer and experiment.

7. Investigation of microgrogramming and other methods for
increasing the flexibility of computer design. The posbibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a large-scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.

a Ss
S12 p ACERT be
: CASI
. - ”
ry Ek co = pF — gad bey a \ = -
Rg A erst . ‘ wen inden iS idl i in re. -~ i + a =; g - =

 

a :
MIAMSCOOAAT INA:
7 SE ASAS MALAY [Ar LANA e

a
Vera ¢

TR WE SUT ITER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~~


Extension of NSF G2940 Page 7

Enclosure B, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
e.g.§ several single-accumulator computers with common memory,and

he behavior of a computer with multiple accumulators. Some of
hese properties can be simulated on a 704 by utilization of
nal drums and magnetic core banks.

 
  

Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,

9. pu LCL
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence conver-

gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration. | |

 

Facilities:

  
  
 
 
  
  

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 704 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units cont
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpt
betic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
magnetic-tape-controlled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled card
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the TO4 there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregat
machine rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated
by IBM.

The Type TO4 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scald
commercial computers available today. Sincé& the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel - Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Associated
with the Project:

 

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Bush differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 1957,
and about a hundred journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further biographic details
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project.

“os wa


Extension of NSF G2940 Page 8

Enclosure B, Continued

Dr. Frank M. Verzuh, who will be asslstant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 1946, he has been

connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1940.
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the
utilization of various analogue computing equipment - differential
analyzers, ete., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 704. He received
a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Sc.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in

  

 

1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at
MIT since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1940.
He is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers"
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis" (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind Pro-
gramming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and will head the programming research group
in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in Electrical
Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doling graduate work in
Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his doctor's
thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience in the use
of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment and with
Whirlwind I. . Hifrsetaoy oflhibesahargewiid bhecBRxpgedtto the
Project. 0 hoch 0 o.

Dr. F. J. Corbatd, whose primary responsibility will be the
administration and supervision of the IBM research assistantship
and associlateship program of the 23 New England colleges at the
Center, will also carry out research and do consulting on research
problems, especlally in the physical sciences. He received a B.S.
in Physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1950 and
a Ph.D. in theoretical solid state physics research at MIT in 1956.
During 1951-56 he was a research assistant in machine computation
and numerical analysis at MIT and is now a Research Assoclate at
the Center. Part of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center will be available for
advice and cooperation. From time to time, if one of them can
supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may be
charged to the Project.


ils. 4 Aa EE A
.

ate!


