With reflerence to point 5; it is my belief, and I know that Al Hill

does not agree, that & university man who has been loesned to IDA for
one or two years, usually returns to his institution as a less valuable
faculty member than he would have been if he had stayed there. There
are exceptions, of course, such as (1) those who are professionally in
operations analysis, and so are &ble to use thelr IDA experience directly
in a continuation of a pre-IDA professional academic activity, (2) those
who uge the bresk in their career represented by the IDA experience as a
means of effecting a transition from working scientist to administrator,
and (3) those who were not doing anything particularly significant in
their oun fields before going to IDA and so are not particularly damaged
by a one or two year detour into IDA activities.

The point 1s thet & really outstanding academic man in & highly productive
phase in his life, who is engaged in important research activities, cannot
give up these sctivities even for only one year without serious loss to
his career. In & repidly woving field, scientific research is a very
dynamic and competitive activity, with the result that the men who inter-
rupts his campus research for a year or two while his colleagues do not,
finds that he has lost ground. Certainly, any educationsl institution
which is anxious to inerease its stature will nearly always suffer if

its leading physical chemist, nuclear physiecist, electronics man, or
metallurglst, drops his campus program that is bringing prestige to the
university, and goes off and does operations analysis for one or two
years; the man involved likewise suffers professionally.

 

 

The idea of sebbaticals from IDA to universities (Ttem 6) where the
university makes a contribution to the man's salary equivalent to a part-
time academic position, with IDA paying the rest of the salary, has some |
possibilities for spreading the gospel of operations analysis. However, i
IDA employees who have dealt continuously with classified material are
likely to find it is difficult for them to talk when classified material
must be avoided, so their ngefulness in this commectien may be limited.

A ——

The Sumner Institute idea {Item 7) might each summer take & group of

to 4O knowledgeable academic people and attempt to acquaint them with
the concepts of operations anslysis through a short and intenmsive programe. |
The purpose would be to get more people familiar with the field, and parti- ;
cularly people who would be strategiecally located around the country. The |
cost to IDA would be the instructional cost for the program, together with
transporation, board and room, for the participants. I would assume that
the participants would not require a salary. In & period of five to ten
vears, one could in this way bulld up quite a group of alumni who had had
the experience of such a Swmer Institute, and vho would have some famill-
arity with IDA and a friendly feeling towards it.

Summer study groups ere being set up every year to tackle particular
problems of interest to the militery. As a by-product they do provide
training in operational thinking for academic personnel who are usually
well represented in them. Possibly IDA could do something here that