29 May 1959

Professor John W, Carr, III

Director, Research Computation Center
University of N.rth Carolina

Chapel Hill

North Carolina, USA

Dear Professor Carr:

 

I send for your favor a copy of a letter sent today by registered air
mail to J. Wegstein to the address indicated by you.

I am continuing to prepare for myself the possibility of coming to
see you. For much convenience I want to prepare the text of my
‘ten lectures early. I would be very glad if you would state your

consideration for such an example of the plan of the lectures:

Introductory part: Historical Survey

First part: Automatic Programming
A ———————— ———————— as AN BR —— — ————— on

The operational method and the first programming programs.
Programming programs for the machine STRELA. Algorithms of
optional programming. Automatization of programming of ""non-
mathematical problems. Certain problems of automatization of
programming.

Second part: Theorstical Programming
Mathematical models of the languages of programming/algebraic and
geometrical approach. Results connected with problems of transformation
and equivalence of algorithms. Results connected with the notion of
algorithmitic completion of a system of operations. Certain problems

of theoretical programming.

I would like to ask you if it would be possible to translate the text of my
lecture into English upon arrival in the U. S. A. together with one of my
American colleagues. This request is optional since I could prepare the

English text myself; however, in this case it would contain many errors,


You perhaps would be interexted to know that in Moscow at the Moscow

State University from October 12 to 18, 1959, will be held the All-Soviet
Conference on Computational Mathematica and Computational Techniques.
For all information it is necessary to address my organizing committee

at the address:

Moscow V-234

Moscow State University
Mechanical-Mathematical Faculty
Chair of Computational Techniques

Sincerely yours,
/s/] A. P. Ershov

P. 8S. Just obtained your new notification on the Conference. Many thanks!


