1038 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

a constant 500-cycle reference voltage E, was applied to the in
tube in series with the tank voltage E,. The oscilloscope co
justed so that when E, equalled 0 the spot was centered v
screen. Depending on the position of the search probe in
reference electrode in the deep tank, E, was either in phase with E th
adding to it, or out of phase with E, and subtracting from it. In trh,is wereby
“plus” or “minus” voltage in the tank would result in an upward or down?’ 3
deflection of the oscilloscope spot. The switch S2 and the 4.5-v. battery sh 5
in FIGURE 14b were used to obtain additional DC bias for the oscillosco .
but should not be needed with most commercial oscilloscopes.

For horizontal positioning of the oscilloscope spot, fine copper wire wa
wound on an elliptical form having the same eccentricity as the tank cross sec?
tion. A DC voltage was applied across this ellipse and, as the search probe
traveled around the tank periphery, a spring contact tapped off a portion of
this voltage and applied it to the horizontal plates of the oscilloscope. Thus
as the search probe moved around the tank the oscilloscope spot traveled fron;
left to right across the screen, and its vertical position was proportional to the
potential produced by the dipole. To obtain a record, it was necessary to
keep the camera shutter open for only a single revolution of the probe.

put of the 6]7
ntrols were ad-
ertically on the
relation to the

pe used,

Tank Results

Using this system, the potential around the tank wall was measured at 12
horizontal levels for each dipole angle in space. This was done for all
possible spatial-dipole angles at 30° intervals.

The data obtained from the tank can be used in two ways:

(1) Since potentials at all points on the thorax model are available for a
given dipole orientation, any system of vectorcardiography can be tested. It
is now generally agreed that the limbs have the same potential as adjoining
points on the thorax, so systems involving limb leads can be included. In
addition, points on the thorax not included in one of the 12 levels can be ob-
tained by interpolation. In this way Einthoven’s triangle and a modification
thereof have been tested.®

(2) By making similar measurements of the distribution of potential aroupd
the thorax for human subjects at a fixed instant of time during the cardiac
cycle, the spatial-dipole angle of the heart vector can be estimated by deter-
mining which of the model distributions fits most closely. FIGURE 15 shows
the distribution of potential around the thorax at 7 horizontal levels for a
normal male subject at the time corresponding to the peak of the R wave In
lead II. The levels were measured in centimeters above (+) or below (—) the
center of excitation, which is taken as 5 cm. below the nipple line. The levels
shown were taken at Z = +20, +16.5, +12, +8.2, +1.8, —352, and —9.2. f

FIGURE 16 shows the tank data for a dipole & angle of —60° and 8 angle 0

—30°. The « angle is defined as the angle between the spatial vector and the

- : Teon’ ion, i t between
horizontal plane. The B angle, following Wilson’s notation, l-{s-}t{ha;xis e

jecti izont d the
the projection of the vector on the horlzontz%l plane an . s
frontal plane. We use the term ar for the Einthoven angle, that1s, the ang

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1039

between the projection of the vector on the frontal plane and the +X axis, in
order to emphasize the fact that this angle is a “projected” one.® With this
system the spatial angle of the vector can be visualized easily. The vector is
assumed to lie parallel to the frontal plane, pointing to the left side of the body,
and parallel to the horizontal plane, that is, both @ and 8 angles of 0°. Tt is
then simply rotated through the angle 8 and tipped up or down through the
angle a. Comparing the distributions of FIGURE 16 with corresponding levels
in FIGURE 15, it is evident that there is a general agreement between the
curves. The curves of FIGURE 15 actually lie somewhere between the graphs
of FIGURE 15 and those in which both « and B angles are —30°. We can there-
fore conclude that the spatial angle corresponding to FIGURE 15 is approxi-
mately an o angle of —45° and a 8 angle of —30°. Both a and 8 should be
correct to within 2210°.  The curves of FIGURE 15 show evidence of the presence
of local excitation processes, or more than one effective dipole in the heart.

FIGURrE 16 is a typical tank data sheet. The drawings show the projections
of the vector on the horizontal, frontal, and sagittal planes. With the system
used, the horizontal-plane projection shows the true angle 3, but the angles in
the other two projections are not generally equal to a. It has, in fact, been
shown?®® that

 

t =
an ar = — (19)

Other relationships that hold in the system used are:

 

gt ina (20)
sin
A; = A cos a cos B (21)
A, = A cosasinf (22)
A; = A sina (23)
Ay = A=V A2+ A2 = Acosa (24)

A= Ay = \/AZ2 + A2 = AV1 — cos? asin® B (25)
Ay = A, = /A, + 4.2 = AV/1 — cos? a cos? B (26)

In these equations A is the magnitude of the vector in space, and Ax, 4y,
and A, are the horizontal, frontal, and sagittal projections, respectively. Itis
evident that it is necessary to find both « and 8 for a complete determination
of the heart vector.

FIGURE 17 shows the boundary-potential and potential-gradient curves for
another subject, also taken at the peak of the R wave in lead II. Comparing
these curves with the tank charts, it can be determined that the a angle is
—15° and the 8 angle is 0°. Ficure 18 shows the tank data for « and 8
angles of 0°. An accurate mathematical treatment of the potential due to a
source and sink in a finite elliptical cylinder is very difficult. A solution can
be approached by considering an infinite series of dipole images obtained by