1046 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

there were only one dipole acting in the heart area, there cquld be only one
“hositive” maximum and one “negative-” maximum of potential on the thorax
wall, and that the variation of potential between any two points would be
continuous. The same conditions would hold for the variation of potential
around the thorax at any horizontal level. If S}lCh graphs. are not smooth
curves, or if there is more than one potential maximum or minimum, then one
must conclude that the leads are recording the effects of more than 1 dipole.
Whether one observes one or more dipoles depends on the number, size, and
location of the electrodes; the amount of amplification used; the individual
being tested; and the instant of time during the cardiac cycle. I have found

    
     
  
 

Potential V
mv.
Right bundle-branch block
line g-40 msec ofter peak of
R-(Lead II)

Distance along chest=CM.

RIGHT LEFT

Ficure 21. Potential distribution around the thorax at the mid-ventricular level of a
subject with right bundle-branch block. The presence of 2 simultaneous potential maxima
is indicative of 2 effective dipoles in the heart (E. P. 2/18/55).

that in the majority of cases one major dipole component can be observed. It
should be noted that the method of integrating the potential over the thorax®®
gives the resullant dipole regardless of whether or not local excitation processes
are observed in the chest leads.

FIGURE 21 shows the chest-lead diagram for a case of right bundle-branch
block at a time corresponding to 40 msec. after the peak of R in lead 2. The
presence of two positive and negative maxima indicates the presence of 2
effective dipoles. Presumably the excitation has spread into the right ven-
tricle and is also active in the left ventricle.

If data on the potential distribution over the thorax, displayed in other
ways,* 4 are plotted by the method described in this paper, similar results are
obtained; that is, there is usually one major dipole, but evidence of additional
dipoles can occasionally be seen.

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1047

Summary

The distribution of potential around the boundary of a three-dimensional
electrolytic tank model of the human thorax at the level of the dipole center
s similar to the potential distribution around a similar flat tank if the vertical
angle of the dipole is within the range of 30°. Two-dimensional thorax
models can, therefore, provide information about the horizontal components
of heart excitation.

Using such a flat tank, an artificial dipole was set up in the heart area, and
potential distributions were measured for the following four cases: (1) an
insulating boundary having a homogeneous interior and shaped for the outline of
the thorax cross section; (2) insulating spine and sternum areas inserted, and
lung sections having a resistivity four times that of the main body of elec-
trolyte; (3) the same as (2), except that the heart area was made more con-
ducting; and (4) the same as (2), except that the lung sections were made
completely insulating.

For each case, the potential and potential gradient along the periphery of the
model were plotted as a function of distance.

The effect of the highly conducting heart section was uniformly to scale down
potentials external to the heart. The effect of increasing the relative re-
sistivity of the lung sections depended on (1) the dipole angle, and (2) the
particular field point under consideration. It is not possible to make a general
statement about the effect of increased lung resistance since, for certain dipole
angles, the potential was increased at some points in the field and decreased at
others.

For any dipole angle, the differences between potentials on the outer bound-
ary for cases 1 and 2 were not large. The conductivity of the heart section
had a greater effect on the boundary potentials than did the conductivities of
the lungs, sternum, and spine sections. A much larger effect was found if the
lung sections were made completely insulating. The effect of inhomogeneous
areas on the potentials was greater in the interior of the section than on the
boundary.

For dipole angles of 0° to 60° the main peak of the potential-gradient curve
was opposite the center of the dipole. For a dipole angle of 90° the potential-
gradient curve on the boundary was diphasic, and the point of zero potential
gradient was opposite the dipole center.

Image systems were developed for sources and sinks in two media of finite
resistivities separated by straight-line and circular boundaries. For the latter,
four systems were required, depending on whether the source and sink were
inside or outside the circle, and whether potentials were required inside or
outside the circle. If we represent the heart area by a circle, the theory
showed that the effect of increased heart conductivity should cause the external
potentials to be reduced, uniformly, but that the endocardial potentials would
be changed in a complicated way. The image theory showed that increased
lung resistivity would also have a complicated effect on field potentials.

Tests with two dipoles showed that if both dipoles had the same center, the
external field distribution was equivalent to that produced by the resultant