‘Application for for a , Grant for the
i. Support of Machine Programming Staff Staff for the Utilization of
Electronic Computers in Social Science

The Facility and its Potentlalities

The high-speed computing facllity, to be installed by
IBM at the new Computation Center at MIT wlll be the largest and
most flexible facility in this country to be devoted exclusively
to unclassified research and education. IBM will contribute more
than a fifth-efsa million a year in its support for maintenance
and operation. What is needed, in addition, to make this an
outstanding center for the investigation of digital computer
potentialities in all branches of scientific research, is about
£100,000 a year for the support of a research staff, which can
work with scientists in various fields to develop new and more
effective techniques of machine utilization.

Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in
New England to participate in the use of the machines, and IBM has
set up funds for Assistantships to enable graduate students, at
MIT and at the participating colleges to spend time at the Center,
learning to use the equipment. (The installation is expected to be
completed by February 1957. Details #f the installation and of

arrangements with the participating colleges are given in Enclosures

B and C to this proposal. This Center and these arrangements <
Se pEaRt potentialities for new developments in social and physical
science of great and unexplored importance.

There will be no charge, for machine time, made to students

or faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the


De |
routine aspects of operation will be taken care of by IBM, so that
those who know how to use such equipment can use. it, without cost,
up to the 14 hours a day during which the machine will be avall-
able at first. A number of problems in economics are going to be
put on the machine by Professor Solow, of MIT, and by Professor
Orcutt, at Harvard and, as other research workers in the social
sciences learn how to use the equipment, other problems will be
brought to the Center.
The Importance of Team Research

Put an instrumentality, by itself, cannot produce new
research. To make the important advances, which are possible
with a computer of the speed and flexibility of this, one needs a
team of research people, some of whom know the machine and some
of whom know the research field. To get exciting new possibilities
beyond the stage of a "gleam in the eye" we need, in addition to
the machine, a staff of experts in machine use, ready to team up
with those scientists who believe the machine can help them but
are not sure how, so that, between them, they can translate the
"gleam inthe eye" into new and important results.

In the long run, the various social scientists in New

England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them. But it takes time fo
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers in
any fleld are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer, one
should have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic details
of its operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social

sclence and of a computer, will probably be developed in our next


“3
generation of research workers. But if we want to get started
using computers in social science now, we will have to use a team;
a man who knows the field plus a man who knows the machine.
Need for a Research Staff in Machine Utilization, an Ingredient

This last ingredient is the part which is eft out of the
contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To put
the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-time
staff of enthusiastic machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do its tricks and to join with re-
search workers, who come with a "gleam in their eye," forming
teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's capabilities
in research. This staff will be hard, but not impossible, to
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chiefly toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant of 35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the particl-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun to
make contact with those students who are interested in machine
utilization. There are about two dozen IBM research assistants
appointed for this year. We should be able to pick from the best
of these a few who would like to stay on for two or three years
more, after they have obtained their advanced degrees in engineering,
mathematics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potentlal
members of research teams.

Budget for the Social Sciences

To make up a staff which could handle the soclal sclence

problems as well as the physical science ones would need another


| oe 4
four or five good men, research men : plus the technicians to back
them up, plus a small budget for travel and incidental supplies
and eéguipment, approximately £35,000 a year for three years. It

 GtLlt Like skid ENeae years to get rolling and the developments

should be reviewed at the end of three years, to see where to go
next. Such a staff should be more important during the beginning
stages of the utilization of electronic computers, when the SES
lems are not too clearly formulated and when nelther partner in

the team knows the others plans and ideas. Later, when some of

the more important potentialities have been demonstrated, the
research can be split up into projects, each with a definite goal
and with its own budget, which can include partial support for
the continuing staff of the Center. So, eventually, the Center
could be financed indirectly by contributions from each project
which uses it, if this were considered to be the most desirable
way of keeping it going. At present, however, support by contribu-
tions from established research projects can only support about a
third of the £100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the
most frultful research of all, the unknown results which are sure
to come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together
with the economist, psychologist or sociologist, on the faculty
of one of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with
only a "gleam in his eye."
Possible Initial Directions for Investigation

As indicated, we cannot write down in any detail the

directions which this research effort will take, as the various

teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general


be
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immediate interest and which, in addition,

should provide hints as to still more important applications.

To A. One of these is the deeper 4dnvestigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 704 1s too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think." Most machines |
are now programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, a few programs have

been devised to make the machine cbey the rules of Boolean logic

and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make the
machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the logic
of a game. Different sciences and branches of learning have
their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetics each have patterns of thought which do not exactly
duplicate those of physics. Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which correspond
more closely to these other patterns. With a machine of the
flexibility and storage capacity of the 70%, such research is worth
while. It will have to be tackled, at the beginning, by teams of
experts in the field of interest, together with mathematical
logicians who know machine operation.

B. Another general line of attack 1s fhe field of the
storage and rapid access to information, such as is needed in the
problems of language translation and historical research, for
example. Several schemes of ctding of information, sc that it can
be found quickly and Sally: have been devised on paper, but the
"pugs" in such schemes will only become apparent when masses of
information, of the order of several hundred thousand ltems, are

to be ordered and sorted out. The new installation at the


«de
Computation Center will rave & storage capacity of this size. Sone
of the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed,
by members of the Center staff working with persons familiar with
the information and its uses. For example, a project in machine
translation has already been set up, ‘under ‘the direction of
Professor. Locke of the Language Department. v As 1t develops sit
will need the help of machine programming specialists and will
need the use of a machine to test its ideas. The translation
project 1s already supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, but
parallel ‘work by the Computation Center on techniques for rapid
access to large-quantity data would help this work as well as
others. Another promising direction of investigation is in the
application of machine techniques to library inventorying,
cataloguing, and record-keeping. Although special-purpose
machines will probably be required in the end, many ideas and
procedures can be developed and checked out on the general-
purpose machine at the Center with the addition, perhaps, of some
specially built input and output equipment. The staff of the
MIT Library 1s interested in this work and will contribute its
knowledge to its progress.

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, in part
because the least investigated up till now, is in the field of
social science experiments, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referce. Tactical situations in warfare are
already being studied by "gaming techniques" at Rand and in other
military operations research groups. Similar problems in vavious

flelds of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying


Tw

the situation down to some sort of "game," with more or less
complicated rules, which can be played by. groups of ahxestigators,

“to gee what are the consequences of ‘warious strategies. if the

"games" are to correspond, e even distantly, to some actual social
situation, the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring
will require s great deal of statistical computation. It has
been found that only by the use of comput ing machines Su the
scoring be speeded up sufficiently so that enough games can be
rin through to provide an overall grasp of the situation under
study. Such "gaming techniques" are closely related to the
experiments of Bavelas on the behavior of task-oriented groups.
The use of a properly programmed computer would provide such
experiments with a powerful and flexlble means of changing,
‘controlling, and analyzing these experiments in social psychology.
In this field we could work in close collaboration with the
"Center for International Studies at KIT and with the psychology
departments in several other colleges.

Suggested Guidance for the Research
The research activities of the Computation Center are

guided and coordinated by an Advisory Committee consisting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges each
chosen by the president of their college. This Committee provides
overall policy guidance in all activities. But to gulde the work
in social science outlined above, we will need another, more
specialized group. If financial support for this activity is
forthcoming, about six top-flight social scientists from the
participating institutions will be invited to join a special advisory


-8=
committee, to talk over possible Lines of research with the Center
staff, to help find those social scientists with "gleams in their
eye” regarding machine utilization in their field, to help arrange
the formation of teams for the pursuit of the suggested research and
to advise on relative priorities, if and when there 4s more work
to be done than there is machine time available.

Equipment, Personnel and Budget
‘The attached enclosures give details of the equipment to

i installed in the Computation Center by February or March 1957,

 

and the arrangements with other colleges in New England. The
suggested budget, for three years, is tentative and is more
dependent on our ability to hive one or two more experts in
computer programming than on the amount of work to be done. If

we can find more men of the right sort, more work can be done.
During the calendar year 1957 we may rot be able to find more

than one senior man, one or two post-doctoral fellows and a couple
of technical assistants. By the fall of 1957 we may be able to
persuade one or two faculty members of the cooperating institutions
to spend appreciable fractions of their time at the Center, works
ing on some of the problems mentioned earlier. A suitable fraction
of thelr salaries should be carried by the research funds of the
Center and, if the work is in the social sciences, would be charge-
able to the proposed grant. Some of the experiments in "gaming"
will require special input or-ufput equipment. Therefore, it may
turn out that less than £35,000 wlll be spent the first year; more
than £35,000 the second. The important point, however, is that be-

cause of the presence of the equipment of the Center, supported by


«Ye |

IBM, the majority of the budget of this grant can be spent on
salaries for people directly carrying out the research outlined in
‘this proposal. Fa 0, | 0 ka

The staff can begin to be assembled this spring, but
expenditures would probably not reach full rate until the summer
of 1957. Consequently, the grant could officially start March or
April 1957, or could start as late as June, if some earlier eXe
penditures could be charged against the grant at that time.


APPENDIX A se
Estimated Budget per Year.
Salary, senior scientist (1 full-time man, or two
faculty members, half time) 9,000

Salary, junior scientist (one full time research
associate) | 7,000

Salaries, two technicians (coders or electronics

techniclans as needed) 10,800
Equipment 1,000
Travel 500
Miscellaneous, Publication of reports, ete. 500

Overhead, 20 per cent 7,200
Total, per year #36,000

For three years $108, 000


5 AY cl

 

 

The WIT. Computation Center has | been recently

et established for the purpose of promoting academic research
"in the New England area with modern elestronic digital

computing machines. As such the Center will make available
to New England Colleges research facilities which have been
heretofore denied because of the large financial and stare

obligations required for modern computer operation. To i

implement the operation of the Center, the IBM Corporation

is installing a high-speed model 704 computer along with
an extensive set of peripheral machines required for Sy
proper usage. These machines will be. operated by the 0%
Center and will be at its disposal (with the exception of
one-third of the 704 computing time which has been temporarily
retained by the IBM Corporation because of the current
shortage of computing facilities.) The remaining two-thirds
of the TOM computing time will be evenly divided between
research at M.I.T. and research at the remaining New England
Colleges.

In addition to the cost-free use of the 704
computer, the IBM Corporation will provide machine maintenance
personel and will contribute financially towards the support
of about a dozen technicians required for the effective

operation of the computer. The latter will include two


er ea card punch operators

Ges computer operators) jone pair for each shift of persion. 5 : Eo rh

‘Besides Ah “technicians, the Center will have a |

research staff of from six to twelve persons. ‘who will be

 

5 ‘partially supported by a National Selence Foundation grant. %
“This staff will work in part on the problems of making
| wodern computers more powerful and easy to use, (e.g
utility programs, special function generation, compiler
prograus), and will also explore | the undef ned region of
new computer applications.

In order that all the New England Seite can
take an active role in the Center, the IBM Corporation is also |
supporting : an assistantship program, There are at present.

35 research assistants and associates in this program;
graduate students and faculty members of the participating
New England Colleges. The ma jor Sareaee of the program is
to promote broad academic familiarity with sodérm computer
techniques and applications. The individual assistants

and associates will do research in their respective
specialties, with the general SeLEhEith that the work should
lead to results of publishable significance. This aspect of
the program will be supervised at the Center by a full-time
research Associate.

The M.I.T. Computation Center is under the direc-
tion of Professor P.M. Morse. To advise on general policies
and to help ccordinate the program there have been set up a ¢
committee of M.I.T. departmental faculty representatives and
a committee of Institutional Representatives from the
faculties of the other New England Colleges. The members

of these Two groups also act as supervisors over the activities


ik the research assistants and. assostates at the respective

5 Ao. or schools.

The facilities of the Center will be avaiable. to
any. person from MI. 7, or the New England Colleges. “Ngsts

for computing time will be submitted to the M, L: T. dopartnental

© representive or the Institutional Representative ‘at the

respective schools. Pinal approval of computing time requests A

will be. made by the Computation Center staff. ALL computation

 

 

preparation (e.e. ‘programming, analysis, card punching) will

Ne on a serve-yourself basis, with the research staff at the
© Genter available for extra help only by special arrangement.
Tu = All computational work involving. the use of the
Center will be periodically summarized in a report to be
published semi-annually. The Center also conducts a weekly
geminar on topics related to computers. In addition, computer

time for student problems will be made available to those

| departments and colleges with aonroun whisk Seish the use

of modern computing machines.


| The MIT ‘computation Center will have its ;
peraanent quarters on the M. I.T Campus. in the new ‘carl T.
Compton Laboratory, which is scheduled for completion about
March 1957. In this building the ‘Center will occupy
integrated parts of the basement, first floor and second
floor. This area will have office space for the research
staff, technicians, research assistants and associates,
| besides room for the computational equipment used by the
Center. Nira

ST. Re compubing equipment of the Center, which
«111 be furnished by the I.B.M. Corporation, will primarily
consist of a 704 computer and the related peripheral
equipment. This machine 1s an up-to-date, fast, general-purpose
electronic digital computer. The basic machine code
includes over 80 instructions, including those for arithmetic
operations with floating-point numbers. The basic operating
time 4s 24 microseconds for most instructions, with a normal
maximum of 240 microseconds. The 704 to be installed will
have a magnetic core memory with a storage capacity of
8192 words, each word containing 36 binary digits. (The
storage capacity will be increased to 32,768 registers in
1958.) The computer will also have, as an additional
storage device, a magnetic drum with a 8192 word capacity.

Az with most modern computers, magnetic tape 1s used both


for additional storage and for taput-output requirements. oe

oe he. installation will have 13 tape units, (at most 10 under fi

computer sontrol), each unit storing up to a maximum of
900, 000 words.
: eT addition to the magnetic tape nite, the |
| input-output equipment which will ve under direct computer |
control will be a punched card reader, a 1ine-by-1ine printer,
a card punch, and a photographic oscilloscope unit. In
addition there will be units, not attached to the computer
directly, for recording card information on magnetic tape
and for reading information from magnetic tape and printing
or punching cards. Finally, for ecard preparation purposes,
there will be the usual assortment of standard IBM accounting
machines, including key punches, printer, reproduder, sorter,
ete. |

As a further feature the installation will also
include a punched card tranceiver which is a device for
transmitting or receiving punched card information via
telephone lines to remote punched card centers similarly
equiped with a tranceiver unit.

An additional computer output device planned
for the near future, will be a Photon machine to be

provided by the Photon Incorporated. adn so
machine, designed as a high-quality photographic replacement
for periodical and book type-setting, will offer the oppor-
tunity of transcribing computer results directly into better-
than-average publication form without any human intervention.
Because of the possibility of bullt-in self-checking, the

process can be made completely error-free. The Photon machine


therefore should Play a vital role in the publication of %

i numerical ‘tables or similar problems where perfect publication i

Egy accuracy is required. Other specialized input and output devises
are to be added as 5. they are developed and as the need arises.


