page 2

4. Evaluate the 704 machine room layout presented by Verzuh,

3. Evaluate the space requirements for the air conditioning unit
located in the basement,

6. Evaluate the space requirements for the power transformers
located in the basement,

7. Eveluate the space requirements for the EAM egquipment located
in the basement,

8. Determine the location of the storage area required in the
basement.

Verzuh initiated the discussion by presenting a revised set of plans
for the 704 machine dated April 26. These plans corrected previous shortcomings
due to cable length limitations. After a brief consideration of these plans,

a number of changes were indicated as a result of the following agreements:

l. Fred Gans indicated that the two columns would be removed
from the 704 room,

2. Sturm agreed that a four foot~wide cement beam could be used
to support the resulting fifty-five (55')-foot span formerly
supported by the above-mentioned columns,

3. Tiliacos agreed that the air conditioning for the 704 could
be provided by ducts entering the west wall provided he was
given adequate rocom to "build" the ducts at the ceiling of
the 704 room. He also indicated that the air conditioning of
the customer engineering, reception, dispatch, etc., space
could be effected by small ducts entering these rooms near the
ceiling from the 704 room (Item 3 above),

As a result of the above three agreements, a slight revision in the layout of
the 704 room was necessery. Specifically, the entire machines were to be moved
forward toward the reception area since the columns have been removed. A new
set of floor plans is now being prepared tc effect this change.

The air conditioning people then presented their tentative floor plans
for the 704 area. The plans discussed were identical to those discussed at
M.I.T. on April 23 in the presence of Messrs. Peterson, Collin, D'Eri, Harber,
Hunter, and Verzuh. The coOhsensus of the April 26 meeting was that the proposed
layout was unsatisfactory because of the large amount of space reguired --
air conditioning - 19200 sq. ft., transformer area - 500 sq. £t., etc., leaving
less than 400 sq. ft. for the EAM equipment. Verzuh suggested that further
discussions of this layout be discontinued until the Syska & Hennessy group
reconsider their plans and examine those being prepared by Peterson at M.I.T.