data would help this work as well as others. Another promising
direction of investigation is in the application of machine tech-
niques to library inventorying, cataloging and record-keeping.
Although special-purpose machines will probably be required in the
end, many ideas and procedures can be developed and checked out on
the general-purpose machine at the Center with the addition, per-
haps, of some specially built input and output equipment. The
staff of the MIT Library is interested in this work and will con-
tribute its knowledge to its progress.

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, in part
because the least investigated up till now, is in the field of
soclal science experiments, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referee. Tactical situations in warfare are
already being studied by "gaming techniques" at Rand and in other
military operations research groups. Similar problems in various
flelds of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying
The situation down to some sort of "game", with more or less com-
plicated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators, to
see what the consequences are of various strategies. If the "games"
are o correspond, even distantly, to some actual social gituation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require a
great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that only
by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded up
sufficiently so that enough games c¢an be run through to provide
an over-all grasp of the situation under study. Such "gaming
techniques”" are closely related to the experiments of Bavelas on
the behavior of task-oriented groups. The use of a properly pro-
grammed computer would provide such experiments with a powerful
and flexible means of changing, controlling, and analyzing these
experiments in social psychology. In this field we could work in
close collaboration with the Center for Internatlonal Studies at
MIT and with the psychology departments in several other colleges.

Suggested Guidance for the Research

The research activities of the Computation Center are
guided and cocrdinated by an Advisory Committee consisting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges,each
chosen by the president of hils college. This Committee provides
over-all policy guldance in all activities. But to guide the work
in social sclence outlined above, we will need another, more spe-
clalized group. If financlal support for this activity is forth-
coming, about six top-flight social sclentists from the participating
institutions will be invifed to Join a special advisory committee,
to talk over possible lines of research with the Center staff, to
help find those social scientlists with "gleams 1in their eyes" re-
garding machine utilization in their flield, to help arrange the
formation of teams for the pursult of the suggested research and
to advise on relative priorities, if and when there 1is more work
to be done than there is machine time avallable.

_______________________------IlllllllllllllllJII