INDIANA UNIVERSITY
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA

May 22, 1959

Professor Phillip M. Morse

Director, Computation Center
Massachusetts Institute of Techology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Professor lMorse:

Since receiving your letter of May 13, 1959 I have
discussed it with my colleagues on the Executive Committee
of the Research Computing Center here at Indiana University.
We are essentially in complete agreement in the following
comments .

We are most certainly not interested in a meeting of
Directors of Computing Centers at which local administrative
problems are discussed. Ve meet sufficiently often, albeit
informally, at various other meetings to "know" what is
happening.

On the other hand, we are personally concerned with
the problems relating to the "role" of computing centers in
Universities. We do not worry about today -- we are thinking
in terms of the future. There seem to be several extreme
viewpoints: the pure service center as opposed to the

all-out-program in Programming Research.

We think there is a vast middle-ground. We want to
know about the areas of research necessary to computing
(in addition to compiler techniques and universal languages)
but perhaps more properly in the province of particular
departments of the University. As examples we might consider
Numerical Analysis, Operations Research, Statistics for
Social-Scientists. If computing centers are to continue
to provide "service" a great deal of research must be done
in these areas.,

Should these areas be completely independent of the
Computing Center? Or precisely, what should be the inter-
action between the present-day University departments and
the Computing Center?

We feel sure that we are not the only ones thinking
about these problems and we would like to hear other view-
points. If a conference of this kind achieves reality, one
should invite some interested persons from the departments
effected. Thank you for giving us this opportunity to
present our views on a possible meeting.

Sincerely yours,

Seymour V. Parter
SVP:h