[— The Application of Digital Computers
fo Soclal and Operational Problems;

Opportunities and Needs

Environment and New Facilities - M.I.T. has long been in the fore-
front in the development of computing equipment and in developing
‘ways whereby this equipment can help solve problems in a wide
variety of fields. In the mid-30's Vannevar Bush bullt here the
first differential analyzer and several faculty members, in various
departments, used it to solve problems in engineering, mathematics,
and physics, which could not otherwise be solved. In the past

four years Whirlwind I, one of the first truly high-speed digital .
computers to get into operation, has been made available for more
than 1/3 of its time for the solution of general scientific prob-
lems. Problems from many fields, sponsored by members of all the
different departments at the Institute, have been put on the
machine. The programming research staff of Whirlwind has gained
experience in adapting the computer to this varlety of problems

and the faculty at the Institute has begun to learn, by actual
doing, the ways in which the computer can help them solve their
problems.

Beginning in 1957, the computing facilities at M.I.T.
will be enlarged and reorganized into a Computation Center, to be
devoted entirely to unclassified scientific research and education.
I.B.M. is donating one of its new TO4 computers with double the
usual storage units and wlth appropriate auxiliary equipment, and
wlll provide for the maintenance of the equipment; the Center willl
be housed in the new K. T. Compton Laboratory Bulldlng according
to agreement with I.B.M., the equipment will be used ten hours a
day (on the "midnight shift") by I.B.M., will be available up to
seven hours a day to faculty members from other colleges In New
England and the remainder of the time (seven plus hours) will be
available for use by students and staff of M.I.T. for basic re-
search. The programming research staff, at present working with
Whirlwind, will be tranzferred to the Center, to serve as a nucleus
for planning machine use and for developing new technlgues of
machine application.

Nature of the Research - Exploitation to the full of the potentl-
allities of a new piece of equipment can most effectively be accom-
plished by an advance on two fronts: the solving of specific problems
and the development of techniques. In the case of computing machines,
research workers in many fields should learn machine programming
techniques and then proceed to use the machine €o help them solve
their own problems. In many cases they can develop the programs

they will need for their wqrk, but in some cruclal cases they will
need the help of those persons interested primarlly in machine
operation, who are interested more in developing machine technlques
than in solving individual problems.

This division of labor has been necessary in many other
scientific advances. The recent great progress in nuclear physics


-D

has come as well from the men interested in experimental techniques,
who spend their time trying to get more out of the cyclotrons they
have and building new and better cyclotrons, as from those who are
primarily interested in measuring nuclear cross sections and finding
new particles. Even in theoretical physics one needs the analysts,
who improve mathematical techniques, as well as the physicists
proper, who use the techniques to devise new theories. Research
into techniques does not usually have the glamour which research

on specific problems has, but in really new fields of Investigation
the basic techniques often must be worked out before the specific
problems can begin to be attacked.

Research into techniques of using digital computers is
particularly important now, for the potentialities of the new
machines are not well understood by others, who would be benefited
by its help. For this reason we are hoping to enlarge our program-
ming research group when the I.B.M. machine gets here, so that, in
addition to helping the problem-solvers program their computations,
the group can spend some time devising really new tricks. Some of
this research should be into the possibilities of devising new modi-
fications of input and output equipment so that, for example, the
results of some experiment can be fed directly into the machine for
detailed analysis, or so that the calculations performed by the
machine can be fed directly to a high-speed typesetter, in each
case eliminating one or more time-consuming and inaccurate human
interventions,

We are requesting NSF and ONR for help in developing
such techniques of particular use in adapting the computer to re-
search in the physical sciences. Some of the work proposed includes:

1. Devising, writing up, and correlating a library of
programs for solving standard problems, to facilitate the use of
the machine by workers in the physical sclences.

2, Investigating basic programming logic, how 1t can be
expressed in mathematical terms and how much of it can be carried
out by the machine 1ltself.

3, Development of input equipment and techniques which
can connect the machine directly to the experiment, and output
equipment which can display results in a more concise and under-
standable form.

In this way the Computation Center can cooperate in an
active way with the various groups, at M.I.T. and at other New
England colleges, which are carrying on research in the physical
sciences.


So

ed for Parallel Development in the Social Sciences - The work

we have proposed for support by NSF and ONR 1s to be primarily for
applications 1n the physical sciences. But the potentialities of
machine computers in the social sciences and in operations research
has equal or greater promise. In economics, in management problems,
in some aspects of psychology and in other fields, the data is
large in quantity, often requiring much statistical processing

and speclal display befecre its purport can be understood. Many
mathematical techniques, now being developed for these subjects,
require tremendous amounts of computation before they can. be
applied to specific problems. Although the appropriate machine
technigues and the special input-output equipment have not been
Investigated very completely, it is already clear that they will
often differ considerably from those devised for the physical
sciences and should be investigated separately, in close collabora-
tion with specialists In the social sciences. The granta requested
of NSF and ONR will not support the detalled theoretical study and
special equipment development Which this research will require.

It is, therefore, appropriate and desirable that a re-
quest be made for a separate grant for the development of machine
techniques useful for these flelds. We now have, at M.I.T. and
in the neighboring colleges already planning to use the Computation
Center, a variety of specialists in the social sciences, who would
be interested in collaborating with the staff of the Center in
developing such techniques. Funds for the support of specific
studles, in particular fields, can and should be requested and
granted separately. But there is need to support the work of the
Center's staff in devising new techniques, in adapting known tech-
niques to new fields and in helping social scientists effectively
to utilize digital computers in their studies.

Possible Directions for Research - It is not possible at present

to enumerate in detall the directions this investigation of computer

techniques will take. Several promising leads have already arcused
interest, however:

1. A basic investigation of the machine technigues for
computation in the general field of linear programming--dynamic
programming--input-output analysis, which promises to be of con-
siderable importance in economics and in operations research. The
economics departments at both Harvard and M.I.T. are interested
in applying such techniques to their work. Professor Orcutt at
Harvard and Professor Sclow at M.I.T. are on Advisory Committees
to the Computation Center and will cooperate in this work. The
computations are quite difficult for present equipment but 1t
appears likely that new programs, planned to utilize the considerably
greater high-gpeed storage of the new machine, can greatly improve
the speed of solution, If is likely that fundamental improvements
In techniques of solution of these problems will also prove valuable

al


: 1.

in devising algorithms for the solution of roblems of game
theory, also of potential importance in Phone areas. i

2. General studies of the use of machines in the

storage and translation of information have already been started
at M.I.T. A project in machine translation has already been set
up, under the direction of Professor Locke of the Language Depart-
ment. As it develops, it will need the help of machine programming
speclalists and will need the use of a machine to test its ideas.
The translation project is already supported by the Rockefeller
Foundatlon, but parallel work by the Computation Center on tech-
niques for rapid access to large-quantity data would help this work
as well as others. For example, a study of the use and operation
of the M.I.T. libraries was begun last year. At present, the study

& concerned with the ways the library is being used at present,
but 1t is expected to move on to the consideration of possible im-
provement of library operation and extension of its use as a re-
search tool in science and engineering. One promising direction
of investigatlon 1s in the application of machine techniques to
library inventorylng, cataloguing, and record-keeping. Although
speclal-purpose machines will probably be required in the end, many
ideas and procedures can be developed and checked out on the general-
purpose machine at the Center wlth the addition, perhaps, of some
specially built input and output equipment. The staff of the M.I.T.
Library is interested in this work, and will contribute its knowl-
edge to 1ts progress.

3. A dlgital computer can be used as an integral part
of many experiments in the social sciences. It can be used to
simulate certain operational situations and thus to provide data
rapidly and under controlled conditions. For example, automobile
traffic distributes itself through the streets of a town according
to some minimization principle, on the average. It shculd be
possible to simulate this flow on the computer, trying different
assumptions as to the effective "street resistances" and measuring
the resulting flow under various traffic stresses to see how closely
the results check with measurements made in the Boston streets by
the Traffic Study Group already in operation in the Civil Engineering
Department at M.I.T. Tactical situations in warfare are already
being studied by "gaming techniques" at Rand and in other military
operations research groups. JSlmilar tactical problems in various
fields of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying
the situation down to some sort of "game," with more or less com-
licated rules, which can be played by groups of Investigators, to
see what are the consequences of various strategies. If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to some actual social situation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require
a great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that
only by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded
up sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide


7 of

an over-all grasp of 1tn proveriies, Bua "ami ng We ahintigunn

are closely related t., the CrpS rime ni. OF Baye un an hha bow bis vd ion
of task-oriented Eroups The UBS nf 4 bropsel y ERA 0 1 vn i Mhmpid hong
would Provide Such Crp riments with & Limes pl | Gi srrrme WS
of Changing, controlling, bn Analyzing Lhsuas Sh8 Lisi u ii Wk ik
PS8ychology, In this Fie lq "% couln AK An alos Ghd labia tin
with the Center Lop Internation i diss GE M,1.w wd wink Lhe
P8ychclogy Cepzartments ir “SYers | GL1s G1 Inumsu

Pr ODOEes Didget - The Lriree ELS TE | Gisen nt Why Jim SIN ivnim il
aI'e SXzmp ee of fields of FeRStren 1p AMELIE MEAT Hil hs
Cif ferent Crom rss “EEL In the Priynisng | Rl isnimn, Wir Lok &
eq 2117 MDCT znt 20. Ur MIBIing., ns Wud vf brs Erin ba ied
in the pgs iez] SLB es ill run Git ilk, (ny, & yhty 4
oT rough} ZL z2ize wou “ us elisll fry Lr EIR LIN Whoww /
. ¥ ce BTSs 2s Zl tet Laur? wre v/a is , 4 pr, NATH
: =I With Zr irtes i 12 ARG AEE Bd Ls PRI ok rh THA
. LLET Zrecizlists R.Br eid. ET AIR RALA
ee - BLO A “Tk Trdg ra Lr ARE ISE ra FY Br rtiion s 4 /
Ee 5a gogilles Pals C2 Fir PIE SSR E Taz F194 Ir LN
ass PS Wein LR BS vJ Shs Cty sv >»
IONE zap LL Ce fom HE DEST af © Ps, wens A WE fn
= _— u _~ ’ . ry. . ty" 4 y #
EINE i= le TE Rr at o BOSE GF Lint
rg Sr lEnsgy Zz 3 SIRs SET. LEY tx La YASS Sk ar
re EINE, Zume za TE Am AK TE TAs AR Srl 44
DTT 2 Tams 27% Za = Ty EFEAS I a 2 LP» SA hd fed»
2 Emr HIT Ss ltzs TR EE Cx aa fk AE, wiiy
ET caatas =z SI EY wl 1 Lik # edo 4 Vr rl hg
ca aE INT ITE 2% Yea ET gn ITAA mk A TH, Ties 4 PAL flo
__ Cr ar — ea zl a — ET 4 x AAG Sr 4 wv A Sf de. v4
ims, Sy Szo- eT Ys
- i
ad ¢
A WNW i
. ~~ r fr. ~~ V - Pro
’ - - ” or .


