COMIT: A Compiler-Interpreter for Mechanical Translation

The COMIT system is designed for use in the Mechanical
Translation of languages and for symbolic manipulation. The exact
details of the COMIT language are described in reference (1) below.
Examples of the potentialities of the system are included in the

reference.

The COMIT system is conveniently described as a two-part system;
compiler and interpreter.

The compiler is used to convert into the internal binary
language of the machine the alpha—numeric input symbols which constitute
a grammar to be operated upon and the rules of operation for the
grammar.

The interpreter is the vehicle which interprets and executes
the various grammar rules according to the order specified by the
programmer. Contained in the interpreter is an extensive input—output
section which permits the recovery of the alpha—numeric language from
the internal language.

At present all parts of the COMIT system are written and
operable. The remaining debugging problems are localized to the
interpreter and should be completed early in the spring. A modification
of the compiler has been effected which renders the entire system
(compiler and interpreter) relocatable save a few hundred registers at

the beginning of core memory. This modification will permit time sharing

(1) V. H. Yngve, "A Programming Language for Mechanical Translation,"

Mechanical Translation, Vol. 5, No. 1, July 1958.


-2-

between the COMIT system and other small programs.
The COMIT system has been decoupled from any particular

operating system (e.g. Automatic Operator Program) and may be used
as a separate system itself. The current modes of use and initiation
include:

1) Call from on-line card reader for compilation

and/or interpretation
2) Call from tape for compilations and/or interpretation
3) Call from within the MIT Automatic Operator Program

for compilation and/or interpretation.

A programmer's reference manual is forthcoming which includes
details of system operation and operating instructions for machine

operators.

K. Hansen
M. Kannel
K. Knowlton


