ONR

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass,

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation

ie and Utilization--investigation into
the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; Including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis
and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1050 To determine whether further Support 1s advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organizing what
should be one of the mos ruitful centers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machines, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxlliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from 1ts departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
55 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research In the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already |
25 institutions have indicated thelr interest in participating and |
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM 1s providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In Chis atmosphere and with these facllities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phages of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and buslness., A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students |
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the |
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and |
will carry on research of their own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine

—e m—— i ——


Dn

operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and social sciences and in engineering.

It 1s appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
flelds of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the
participating colleges would Join it for a semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full-time at the Center.

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. Ve believe that a contribution of
about $100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the re-
search carrled on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges. We 1ist later ‘in this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects will develop naturally from these and
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center. :

The project would not start at full strength. The 704% will
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. Ue estimate that a total budget of g60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, 390,000 for 1957-58 and $100,000
for 1958-59. Details are given later in this proposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the program should be re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chlefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financlal support
from both agencles, an 2qual share from each. Ve believe the work
can be divided so TiisL separate contracts can be written. Some of
the proposed taske would be different, though some of the broader
Yields of investig ©i:on would overlap. We would hope that we could


-

put out a combined progress report. In some published papers,
credit could be given to one organization alone; in others, credit
would go to both. Bookkeeping would be somewhat more complicated,
but since most of the expense would be for salaries, little for
permanent equipment, thls could be done. It probably would be
necessary to have the usual government overhead for both contracts.

The proposed budget asked of each agency for 1956-57 is
given below. The corresponding amounts for the following two years
would be gi5,000 for 1957-58 and F50,000 for 1958-59, as indicated
above.

Proposed Research; Possible Initial Directions of Investigation:

 

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input
languages; the possibilities of coding directly. in mathematical,
logical or business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and automatlc
error analysis, 3

3, Development of numerical analytic techniques partlicu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more general
expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomials sums for simulating
standard functions by & common block of instructions but small
separate blocks of coefficlents and cycle counters and methods of
automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial plus
Richardson extrapolation or other means,

4. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques
for communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible improve-
ments in input-output equipment.


6.

He

Investigation of new techniques and applications of

linear programming, including procedures analogous to the methods
of steepest descent developed by Hestenes and Stiefel for the
solution of linear equations.

T.
(a)

(v)

(co)

(d)

Computations of interest in pure mathematics:

Character table of selected characters of the
symmetric group.

Checking congruences of interest in algebraic
number theory.

Further extension of factor tables and prime
number lists past 1012 via the sieve of Erastosthenes,
utilizing, say, Corbato's new factoring program.

Coding of Tarski's decision method for elementary
algebra and geometry. . Tarski has shown that ele-
mentary algebra and geometry can be decided by a
computer. To implement this would be a task of
considerable magnitude, but it would illustrate the
logical capabilities of a computer to a degree not
heretofore done.

8. Techniques for achieving fully automatic computer
operation and logging. These will be investigated as an integral
part of the computing system.


eo

Facllities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TO4
Electronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 wagnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type #07 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
BACOuTS rental, in excess of 50,000 per month, will be donated by

 

 

" The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT Installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and gt
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

EE I NN I i r,t a an EE

Principal Investigator to be Professor Phllip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with

computing problems during his career in theoretical physlcs since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first Bush
differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his
Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 192C and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about 2 hundred journal articles, many of which give re-
sults obtained from machine computation. For further bilographic
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at MIT
since 1938, He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1940. He
18 the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers”
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and “Introduction
to Numerical Analysis” (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who willl head the programming research


=B:

group in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in
Electrical Engineering at Michigan, Spent four years doing graduate
work in Mathematics at Purdue ang is, at present, finishing his
doctor's thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience

in the use of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment
and with Whirlwind I. His Salary will be charged to the Project.

Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT Bince 1946, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1940,
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the
utilization of various analogue computing equipment--differential
analyzers, etc., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 704. He received
a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Se.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center (see Appendix A) will be
available for advice and cooperation. From time to Cime, if one
of them can supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may
be charged to the Project.

Full-Time Members of the Pro ject

These will include some former members of the Whirlwind
programming research group, such as Frank Helwig and Sheldon Best,
and others. Some of the best of the IBM research assistants at the
Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate periods, at
full time, after they have finished their graduate work and relinquished
their assistantships.


“T7~

Budget for 1956-1957
(ONR and NSF combined, 1/2 to be charged to each)

Salaries

Fractions of Salaries of Senior Scientists

Principal Investigator (8 per cent of
$12,500) $ 2,000

Other Faculty Members
{1/3 of $9,000 and 1/3 of 37,500) 5,500

salaries of Full-time Staff

 

 

3 Senior Investigators (at 37,500) 22,500

2 Junior Investigators (at £6,000) 12,000

1 Secretary-Typist (at £3,000) 3,000

1 Technieian (computer, programmer) _. 5,000
Total Salary g50,000

Overhead (see note at end of budget) 20,000

Permanent Equipment

(desk computers, special input equipment,

ete.) 6, 000
Expendable Equipment 1,000
Travel 2,000
Publication Costs __ 1,000

Total Yearly Budget $80,000

(see note on next page)


Saag
de
SY
ple. 2
xg . A

  

Eo ‘Since the stars Will be acquired ip 1956, some of them
from othep Projects between July ang December
for the ¢ r3t yeap 1956-1957 Will be about
yearly estimate. $60,000.

One haip of thig

hi Contributeq by ONR 330,000
Requesteg for yeap beginning July 1, 1956.

eéntage 1g based o
Somewhat from this

8s

ao 5 ;

dd
EW
Ne 4
oo
! == 10
a >
Ry
po

 
  

of the above

Note on Overhead:

The Overhead perc
experience, Tt may differ
Computed,


REPRESENTA D pps
Heaq, Department of Physics
Burkha pg
ad, Department of Physica
d, %raduate Schoo}
Dept of

hematyag
¢ Of Physica

man, Physicay Seienceg Cc
Dept. of Ma

oun,
Stronony
P Economteg
Prog, of


