-« "UO &@

 

COMPUTATION CENTER

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

‘CAMBRIDGE 39, MASSACHUSETTS

“January 21, 1959 i

Professor Ithiel de Sola Pool =
Center for International Studies
Room 14N-207 BE ii

MIT

Dear Professor Pool:

Professor Morse forwarded this material to me for
my perusal sometime ago. The proposed area of study seems
to be very interesting and instructive. I hope that you
are successful in getting support for the venture, and it
seems likely that a moderate amount of TO4 time can be »
made available for the computational aspects of the study,
if this seems desirable. | |

Sincerely yours,

Dean N. Arden
Assistant Professor
of Electrical Engineering

DNA :RM
Enclosure
Copy to Professor Morse


MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

Memo to

Pool will come to 6-107 on Monday at 3:00.

(His office 1s in Hayden.)

Boom...

 

MURAN BOSTON


gi or four days: of the Program will be concerned with the gene

 

 

 

 

© tuportent appliesticns in the field of Som 1 eo a arch. Tt po
is to develop matbematicel facility in the uss of these techmiques. Taree

 

= : probability and distribution theory vith emphasts on u thos. sathenatioal
© models which ave importsnt in sppliceti ier 3
i own be devoted to the further sp

 
 

| a it tions research such wo Markoff Processes; the use of. Kolaogoroy equations, = :
- Queueing ‘theory, dynamic Programing in the presence of random ‘verisbles, =

| Btochastic processes, snd similstion. Bowe illustrations Will be used from

| rx : the Tlalds. of production, iaventory cemtrol, TelieblIYy § and meirtensnce,

2 The naberial ai at assume any y previous  moviotgs of probability thaory,

i 5 ‘but the necessary prevequisites are a Jmovledge of the calculus end differ-
7 ential equations comparable to the undergraduate methengtics required for
the general engineering degree. The Program will consist of morning sad

 

: Wurst lectures by the staff. The course will be under tie direstion of : &
» George P. Wadsworth, Associate Profegaor of Mathematics, and lectures |

7 wiTE be given by Dr. Philip M. Morse, Professor of Physics, Dr. Herbert P.

Ge 1liher, wo 1s associated with the Operations Research Project at MIT,
end Dr. Ronald A. Howsrd, Assistent Professor of Electrical Engineering.


