. 1 ‘ is
iy

April 8, 1959

Mr. Roy Nutt
United Alreraft
Bast Hartford, Connecticut

Dear Roy:

At the last SHARE meeting you asked me the question,
"What conditions Would be neeessary for M.I.T. to replace 1s
modified SAP by a modified SB(Symbolic Binary) System?"

After discussing it with various staff members and users
of the installation, I find that there is a rather pessimistic
answer as to placing it in the Operator program, inasmuch as our
Operator system has approximately many of the advantages which the
SB system offers. In particular, one can currently assemble and
run, read i a package of library subroutines at run time, and
read in previously assembled programe as binary cards. In
addition, the Operator system 1s in a large, cumbersome, and
mature form, (Also there is a strong possibility that the Center
may get a T7090 next year.) The Center also faces the problem of
maintaining the Operator system for various other projects, such
as the real time applications we are currently working on, as
well as maintaining adequate documentation of the system for
continuity through personnel changes.

Furthermore, as an open-shop installation, we face the
difficulty of educating several hundred programmers about new
machine features and facilities. The latter difficulty at times
can be grim because of the limited amount of staff time avallable
for "bailing out” programmers from difficulties which are over thelr
heads, The problem of education can be minimized to a large extent
if the original descriptions of the new facilities make 1¢ clear
that they are only an option and that only the studious user of
the machine need learn about them.

Consequently, it seems clear that the only practical way
that we could accept SB would be as a separate assembly program
for those who wish to experiment. (This might represent a few


of our users who are currently working outside of the Operator
frogsan BNA 8 few Nore Hh Nik iE raced NN Of ia:
dless to say, we are always anxious to experiment with new

techniques providing it does not interfere with the normal heavy
work load.

Finally © answer the hard f questicu, namely what we would
require to be done od Re Rd nie lilo Bes
conjectured answer, which I am not authorized to promise, would
be along the following lines. We would accept SB in our Operator
program if someone else did all the work and providing it was
only an additional feature rather than a replacement; further
it would be necessary that vary complete documentation was made
of all the installation ste Finally, it would be necessary
that the Center have complete "control over the final specifications
of the installed 8B.

I realize this sounds grin and ensoIablE, but from our

point of view, the offer of experimental usage is the only answer |
that we can make at this time,

Sincerely yours,

/
F. J. Corbato (MI)

FJC:RM
eg: Prof. P. M. Morse
« Fe Ne Verzuh
Prof. Ds N. Arden


