January 31, 1958
DSR-#6345

Contract NSori-60, Task Order I 6915

Amendment No. 12
(11/14/50)

It is the desire of the Govermment and the Contractor shat additional
research on an electronic digital computer and component research,

and the application of the computer to military and scientific problems
be performed. To accomplish this, there are hereby provided an ex-
tension in the period of performance of Task Order I under Contract
NSori-60 and an increase in the estimated cost thereof.

Amendment No. 13

(6/28/51)

"(A)

It is the desire of the Govermment and the Contractor that additional
research in applied mathematics utilizing facilities of Contractor's

Center for Machine Computation, and the application of the facilities

to military and scientific problems, be performed. To accomplish this,
there are hereby provided a restatement of the work to be performed,
an extension in the period of performance and an increase in the
estimated cost of Task Order I under Contract N5ori-60.

3. On and after 1 July 1951, section (A) shall read as follows:

The Contractor shall furnish the necessary personnel and facilities
for and, in accordance with any instructions issued by the Technical
Officer or his authorized representative, shall conduct a coordinated
research program in applied mathematics utulizing facilities in the
Center for Machine Computation, including the WHIRLWIND Computer,
which shall include but not necessarily be limited to the following:

(1) research in methods of numerical analysis and the formulation of
scientific problems for machne solution, together with the training
of personnel in these methods;

(2) support of the scientific and engineering applications group pre-
viously associated with Project WHIRLWIND so as to made the WHIRLWIND
Computer useful and available for the above research, including a

continuation of the construction and improvement of the WHIRLWIND Computer; and

(3) an investigation of digitalcomputing machine compememds,"

Amendment No. 14 (Ref. DIC 6909)

(6/28/51)

It is the desire of the Govermnment and the Contractor that the scope

of research in applied mathematics utilizing facilities in Contractor's
Center for Machine Computation including the WHIRLWIND computer being
performed under Task Order I of Contract NSori-60 be expanded, such
expansion to involve theoretical studies and experimental research and
development in connection with the application of the digital computer
in an air defense system. To accomplish such additional research there
are hereby provided an expansion in the scope of work and an increase
in the estimated cost of said Task Order.

3. effective 1 July 1951, section (A) shall include the following
subparagraph: