Name and Address of Institution

The American Mathematical Society
190 Hope Street
Providence 6, Rhode Island

Proposed Project

A Conference for Directors of University Computing Laboratories

Desired Starting Date

January 1, 1960, or as soon thereafter as is practicable

Time Period for Which Support is Requested
One Year

Presentation of Plans fdr the Project

This is a proposal from the American Mathematical Society for a grant in
the amount of $18,912. 00 for the support of a Conference for Directors of University Com-
puting Laboratories, to be held as a symposium in conjunction with the 568th regular meet-
ing of the Society at Chicago, Illinois, on April 22-23, 1960. The Conference would follow
the meeting and it is expected that the Conference and the meeting will be scheduled so that
no sessions of the Conference will conflict with any of the sessions of the meeting.

The purpose of the Conference would be to investigate problems peculiar to
University Computing Centers and publish a report embodying the findings.

An informal committee consisting of:

E. L. Buell, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Walter Freiberger, Brown University (Secretary)
S. Gorn, University of Pennsylvania

T. A. Keenan, University of Rochester

W. B. Kehl, University of Pittsburgh

Philip Morse, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Chairman)
J. Perlis, Carnegie Institute of Technology
R. Rymer, Northwestern University

R. Shreve, Oklahoma State University

J. Viavant, University of Oklahoma

H. Wells, Georgia State College

W. Wymore, University of Arizona

PEHHUE P

have formulated tentative plans for the Conference, and have selected five topics for the
Agenda:

1. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of financing centers?
What fraction of time can be '""sold" and what fraction should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real intellectual challenge,
for research in the use of machines? What are the opportunities for theses in these fields;
how are such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted on the basis of these
theses?