Herbert P. Gelliher
MIT Operations Research Center
Room 6-218

3603

10 hours xx XXXXX

Production runs. Final computations will begin immedji-

ately.

20 hrs.
June 30, 1959


1/2 man year

1/2 man year
1/2 man year

No change

No change


Section D:
Computations have been waiting for Successful completion of the program

under problem number WY 588. This hag recently been achieved, Both problems

are to be run concurrently, since the Computations are to be compiled together

in a single book of tables of waiting line functions,

We expect to terminate both problems this quarter


MIT CQVMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

QUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORT
To: Users of Computation Center Facilities Date: December 22, 1958

From: Dr. F. M, Verzuh
Subject: Quarterly Progress Report for the Period October 1 - December 31, 1958

 

Each quarter the MIT Computation Center must report to its sponsors
on the use of the Center facilities, the nature of problems using the machines,
their progress towards solution and, after completion, the way in which the
results were employed. These data are also made available to all present and
future users by means of the Semi-Annual Reports emanating from the Center.

These reporis help to accelerate the development of improved techniques of
machine computation and to minimize duplication of effort.

To help us prepare our quarterly progress report, will you kindly
fill out the attached PROGRESS REPORT FORM and return it to:

Dr, Frank M. Verzuh
MIT Computation Center
Room 26-142

on or before Friday, January 2, 1959,

If your problem has been completed during the past quarter, and you
will not need further machine time, please:

1. Write a summary to accompany the enclosed Report Fora {sections
D and E of page 3). This should be in appropriate form for
direct inclusion in our Semi-Annual Report.

 

2, Send us two copies of publications based on the work done, and
2 FINAL REPORT as described in our Memorandum CC-114.

If your problem has aot been completed and you will require more
wachine time, be sure to fill out the second part of question 2, page 1 of the
appended Report Form. All present time allotments cxpire on Wednesday,
December 31, 1958. To avoid delay in continuing your use of the 704, your
Report Form should be returned by Friday, January 2, 1959,

Sincerely yours,

F. M. Verzuhn
Assistant Director

os

f+nb

=]
£4
a

Quarterly Report Questionnaire

CCF-8.6a

 

H


