R e——

 

400 j. B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

The correlation between the axial ratio and the con-
centration of copper in octahedral sites as functions of
temperature can be explained on the basis of the
square-bond model. At room temperature Bertaut
found 88 percent of the copper in octahedral sites
(A=0.44) and an axial ratio ¢/a=1.06. At 700°C the
concentration of copper in octahedral sites had de-
creased to 74 percent (A=0.37) and the axial ratio to
¢/a=1.035. The fact that Cu'! migrates from octahedral
to tetrahedral sites indicates that Cu'! can be readily
accommodated in tetrahedral sites although, because of
square-bond formation, it is more stable in octahedral
sites. The increase in entropy due to this migration
apparently offsets the corresponding decrease in internal
energy. That the decrease in the number of square bonds
in octahedral sites due to the Cu!® migration is accom-
panied by a decrease in the distortion is consistent with
the covalent model.

Quantitative correlation between Bertaut’s observed
axial ratios and \ produces the relation,

(A—0.26)=3(c—a)/a for A >0.26. (IV.4)

The factor (\—0.26) is a measure of the stress induced
by square-bond formation. The strain is given by
(¢c—a)/a. Equation (IV.4) expresses a linear stress-
strain relationship (Hooke’s law). It also states that
in CuFe,0y it is necessary to have 26 percent of the
octahedral sites occupied by Cul! before tetragonal
distortion sets in. This corresponds closely to the esti-
mate that at least 25 percent of the octahedral cations
must form square bonds. Equation (IV.4) can be used to
extrapolate to the case of a completely inverse CuFe.0yq,
for which A=0.5. In this case half the octahedral sites
contain Cu'l, and Eq. (IV.4) gives ¢/a=1.08. In a
hypothetical spinel in which all octahedral sites are
occupied by Cu'! ions and in which no covalent bonding
exists in tetrahedral sites, there are twice as many
square bonds in the octahedral sites so that ¢/a=1.16.
This latter value is significant for comparison with the
axial ratios of other tetragonal spinels which are thought
to have square-bond formation in all the octahedral
interstices.*®

C. Tetragonal Spinels Containing Manganese

Hetaerolite (ZnMn,O,) and hausmannite (MnzO4)
each form a spinel lattice with tetragonal symmetry.
Their axial ratios are reported as ¢/a=9.23 A/8.08 A
=1.14%and ¢/a=9.42 A/8.14 A=1.16,"-¥ respectively.
Mason? and Romeijn'* have determined that the Zn'
cations of hetaerolite are in the tetrahedral interstices.
This cation arrangement corresponds to the optimum
configuration for covalent bonding (see Table II) as well

28 McGuire ef al., Ceram. Age 60, 22 (1952), report that CuCr,O,
is also an inverse, tetragonal spinel with ¢/a=1.1. Its axial ratio
varies with temperature in an analogous manner to that of
CUFCQO4.

2 B, Mason, Am. Mineralogist 32, 426 (1947).

% G. Aminoff, Z. Krist. 64, 475 (1926).

as for Madelung energies. Since th? Mn'! cations. may
also form partially covalent bonds In tetrah.edral inter-
stices, it may be analogously assumed that in the haus-
mannite lattice Mn!! cations occupy tetrahedral inter-
stices. This means that there are only two possﬂ.)le
cation arrangements for these tetragonal spinels, viz.,
Zn?*+(Mn2+Mn#H)Oy or Zn2t(Mny'H)O4 for hetaerolite
and Mn2+(Mn2*Mn#+)O; or Mn2+(Mn,'1)Oy4 for haus-
mannite. If the former arrangement is correct, then the
distortion to tetragonality might be due to an ordering
of Mn2*+, Mn*t cations in alternating planes perpendic-
ular to the ¢ axis. Such a model was first proposed for
hausmannite by Verwey." If the latter arrangement is
correct, then some mechanism other than ionic orfiering,
such as square-bond formation, must be respon:slble for
distorting the lattice to tetragonal symmetry. Since it is

impossible to distinguish between Mn*t, Mn®**, and

Mn#*t by x-rays, it is necessary to use other measure-
ments to distinguish between the two alternatives.
Before the predictions on the basis of the two models are
compared with various measurements, however, it
should again be pointed out that Mn*t has the electron
configuration d@* which, according to Sec. III, is partic-
ularly suited for the hybridization of empty (dsp?)
orbitals for coordinate-covalent square-bond formation.
The square-bond model is, therefore, particularly satis-
factory for spinels which contain Mn**, or rather Mnl,
Seven physical properties are discussed below.

1. Tetragonal Symmelry

The distortions to tetragonal symmetry in both
hetaerolite and hausmannite must be caused by the
same mechanism. Since Zn!!, which is well known to
form tetrahedral covalent bonds, is tetrahedrally
coordinated in hetaerolite, the tetrahedral-site bonds are
certainly largely covalent. Therefore if the lattice dis-
tortion from cubic symmetry were due to an ordering of
Mn2+ and Mn** ions in the octahedral interstices, the
lattice would have orthorhombic symmetry as in Ie;Os.
However, the lattice has tetragonal symmetry.

If the square-bond model is correct, then hetaerolite,
which has strong covalent bonding in both the tetra-
hedral and octahedral interstices, should have a smaller
axial ratio than hausmannite which has strong covalent
bonds only in the octahedral sites. The calculation of
Appendix I shows that a reduction from ¢/a=1.16 to
¢/a=1.14 is the order of axial-ratio reduction to be
expected. '

Further, an axial ratio ¢/a=1.16 for hausmannite,
which forms square bonds in each occupied octahedral
site and no covalent bonds in the tetrahedral sites, 1S
exactly the ratio which is predicted from the extrapola-
tion of the CuFe,0, data.

2. Transition Temperatures

The transition of Mn;0, from tetragonal to cubic
symmetry was first observed at 1170°C by McMurdie

’

 

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 401

and Golovato® who used a high-temperature x-ray
technique. Romeijn'* has measured the dc conductivity
of Mn3O4 and ZnMnsO, and found a conductivity
discontinuity in the temperature intervals 1075°C
_<T T< 1150.°C and 950°C <T <1025°C for the respec-
tive materials.

Although the Madelung bonding energy of the com-
pletely ordered state of Fe;O4 is 39.6 kcal/mole!
greater than that of the disordered state, whereas the
thermal energy corresponding to a transition tempera-
ture of 77=120°K is 0.23 kcal/mole, the retention of
considerable short-range order above 120°K can account
for this discrepancy. If the phase transition to cubic
symmetry were due to the same mechanism in Mn;0y as
in Fe3O4, then the transition temperature should be
approximately four times higher in the 2-4 spinels since
the Madelung-energy change due to octahedral-site
ordering is four times as great. There is no reason to
assume that the retention of short-range order above
the transition temperature should be strikingly different
in Mn30O4 than in Fe;O4. The analogous transition tem-
perature for Mn;O, would be 480°K, a value which is
only a third of the observed transition temperature of
1443°K.

Since the covalent model offers an entirely different
mechanism for lattice distortion, no correlation between
the transition temperature of Fe;O4 and Mn3Oy is to be
expected. There should, however, be a correlation of
transition temperatures among the tetragonal spinels.
On the basis of the square-bond model, the transition
temperature varies with the magnitude of the axial
ratio. This prediction is consistent with observations on
CuFe;0s4, ZnMn,Os, and MnzO; whose transition
temperatures are 760°C, 1025°C, and 1170°C, corres-
ponding to axial ratios 1.06, 1.14, and 1.16, respectively.

3. Conductivily Disconlinuily

Romeijn* has measured the conductivity of Mn;Oy4
and ZnMn,O, as a function of temperature and found
that there is a conductivity and excitation-energy
discontinuity associated with the phase change from
tetragonal to cubic symmetry. Although there is a
similar effect in Fe;O4, the discontinuity in magnetite
occurs over a 1°C interval and exhibits no thermal
hysteresis, whereas the manganate discontinuities occur
over a 75°C interval, are considerably less pronounced,
and exhibit a marked thermal hysteresis.

This contrast again corroborates the hypothesis that
the phase transition in magnetite is due to a different
mechanism than that in the manganates. The observed
thermal hysteresis and resistivity discontinuity are
greater in Mn;Oy4 than in ZnMn»O,. Also, the excitation-
energy discontinuity is greater in MnzO4 Such a
correlation was predicted in Sec. B by means of the
covalent model.

31 H. F. McMurdie and E. Golovato, J. Research Natl. Bur.
Standards 41, 589 (1948).

4. Resistivily at Room Temperature

Verwey and de Boer* investigated the electrical
resistivity of hausmannite at room temperature and
found that it was 10% to 10° that of Fe;O,. Romeijn
reported p(Mn304)/p(Fe;0g) =107 ohm-cm/5X 1073
ohm-cm=2X10°. The relatively high conductivity of
Fet(Fe**Fet)Oy4 is due to the transfer of electrons
from octahedral Fe** to octahedral Fe**t ions. In
Mn**(Mn,!')O4 there is no exchange of electrons pos-
sible, and the observed high resistivity follows.

5. Paramagnetism of MngOy

If MnsO4 consists of Mn*t(Mn**Mn*t)O,, there
should be an antiferromagnetic coupling between the
octahedral and tetrahedral Mn** cations which is com-
parable in strength to that between the Fe®* cations in
Fe;04. However, Mn;Oy is paramagnetic at room tem-
perature, and Millar® has measured the specific heat
from 72°K to room temperature and found no A-point
in this range.

It will be shown in Sec. V, below, that paramagnetism
in Mn3O, follows from the covalent model.

0. ’Y—NIHQO;}

The oxide y-MnyO; is a spinel with 8/3 cation va-
cancies per unit cell. It has tetragonal symmetry with an
axial ratio ¢/a=1.16.* This is the same axial ratio as
that found in Mn3O,; the mechanism which produces
the distortion to tetragonal symmetry is apparently the
same in each case.

If the distortion mechanism consists of an ordering
of Mn2t and Mn*t ions in the octahedral interstices,
then y-Mn.0; must have a unit cell with eight Mn**
ions in octahedral sites and (8/3) Mn** lons in tetra-
hedral sites. The (32/3) Mn*t would be distributed over
the remaining interstices of each type. Such a configura-
tion, however, would minimize neither the Madelung
energy, which favors all the Mn*" ions in octahedral
sites, nor any covalent-energy contribution due to tetra-
hedral-bond formation, which favors Mn>* ions in the
tetrahedral interstices. It is difficult to see, therefore,
how such a cation distribution could possibly represent
the minimum-energy configuration.

In the covalent model, on the other hand, all the
cations are Mn*+, or Mn'!! and the distortion is due to
square-bond formation in the octahedral sites. If the
Mn'!! form square, quadricovalent bonds in the octa-
hedral sites, the manganese ions are more stable in
these lattice positions, and the correct formula for
v-Mny0Oj3 1s Mna/3(Mny)Oy. All the vacancies are in the
tetrahedral sites, and the axial ratio should, as it does,
equal the value 1.16 which was calculated in Sec. IV B.
Finally, the observed high electric resistivity* must
follow as the covalent bond is full, and there is only one
type of cation present.

2 R. W. Millar, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 50, 1875 (1928).