/

PROVISIONAL INTERNATIONAL COMPUTATION CENTRE
CENTRE INTERNATIONAL PROVISOIRE DE CALCUL

CENTRO INTERNAZIONALE PROVVISORIO DI CALCOLO

“new...“ W reléphons
INVERCALCOLO— ROMA “In", 4.9“ UHIcI 5294”
vote so: ppm/bf Roma. 2 April, 1959

thre réI: CP/955

Dear Sir,

Thank you very much for your letter of December 17, 1958, informing
us that the Computation Center at Massachusetts Institute of Technology
is interested in becoming one of the Corresponding Institutions of the
International Computation Centre. You will see from Document CIPC/ZS,
which was forwarded to you a short “mile ago, that the list of Correspond—
ing Institutions has now been approved by our Preparatory Committee.

 

The general purpose» of this network was outlined in Bulletin No.2«3.
It is of course necessary to define in a much more precise manner the role
of the Centre as a medium for the systematic exchange of information be—
tween Corresponding Institutions. We think that the Bulletin could serve
a very useful purpose if each Corresponding Institution undertook to send
us regularly, in a form ready for publication, news concerning:

a) experience recently acquired in solving certain problems;

b) projected studies for which information would be welcome con—
cerning experience which may already be available elsewhere;

0) important technological progress “mich has been made or is
being initiated;

d) opportunities for foreign students (holders of Unesco or other
. x . , . . . .
fellowships) to acqu1re oa51c or advanced training in the Cor-
responding Institution concerned;

6) possibilities of exchanging staff members, for limited periods,
with institutions in other countries, etc.

Our correspondence shows that many countries and universities would
like to obtain much more information on the practical utilization of com—
puters for scientific, engineering, economic and other purposes, includ—
ing documentation, translation, etc. Me should like to circulate informa—
tion of this kind through our Bulletin, which is distributed free of charge
to more than 1500 persons and institutions throughout the world, but we
can only do so if our Corresponding Institutions keep us regularly informed.

Dr. Philip 1;. horse
Director
Computation Center

Eassachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, mass.

 

—