Dr. Grad e July 13, 1959

myself as chairman, Professor Walter Freiberger of the Depart-
ment of Mathematlics at Brown University as seeretary, and other
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next: year or two it would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to
college computing centers. The discussions could focus around
four general arcass

1. DBudget and administration: What are good and bad ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "so0ld" and
vhat fraction should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for rescarch in the use of machines?
What are the opportunities for theses in thesc fields, how are
such theses to bo supervised and how arc degrees to be granted
en the bagis of these theses?

5«  Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be
offered? Should courses on machine c¢oding be given for eredit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of other appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual
content, intimately involving computing machines, are being
given and in what departments?

4. Computing service to university departments: Who in the
college should be given "free time"? Vhat priority system can
be set up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between free and paying users? Vhat are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory committees to administer such a
service program?

It was felt that a confercnece on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would result
in a report cmbodying suggestiong and mutual agreeménte on these
matters, would be of very preat help to many directors of college
computing centers, particularly those just beginninz or plonning
te begin., It would secm to me that NSF would also be interested
in the results of such a conference., Certainly the question of
how college computing centers it into their academic structure
anéd how they can help more completely to educate sclentiasts and
engineers is something which has been a subject of discussion in
various parts of NSF to my knowledge. My question to you, there-
fore, is8 an exploratory onc: Is NSF interested in such a confer=
ence? Ig it interested enocugh to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, according to
the latest 1list of Professor Reeves of Ohic State. Ve had thought