r
6FFICI DP ’HE DEAN OF THE GRADUATE SCHOOL MASSACHUSETTS INs‘nTuTE 0F TECHNOLOGV

©©PY

November 19, 1958

Dr. Thorndike Seville
Hedical Sciences Building
University of Florida
Gainesville, Florida

*
Dear Thorndike:

This is a reply to your letter asking about a possible consultant in
the field of mechanical computation for your Center. I sent this
letter on to Phil Morse asking for his comments. He called me up and
gave me the following information with the suggestion that he would
be glad to discuss the matter in further detail if you care to Call
him up by long distance telephone. It would seem to me that this is
a sensible thing to do.

Professor Morse says that the number of people of mature experience,
outlook and ability is so small in Comparison with the number of new
amputation center activities springing up in this country that there
is no possibility of more than a small fraction of them having the
benefit of such consultation. This is but a part of the general
manpower shortage at levels of good competence in this field. He
mentions that a man with a new Master's degree in the field who fete
some understanding of programing is offered 410,000 to $15,000 a
year. This is an index of the competitive situation in this field.

Professor Morse thought that you would probably have to compromise on
a somewmt yourger fellow of good ability (I am using good in the
strong sense) but without the extensive background of experience ani
perspective that a few of those who have been in the field longest
would have. He will be very glad to discuss this subject in more
detail with you if you care to telephone him.

One name that he suggested is that of Dr. Dean Arden, who is head of
the programming research here at the Institute. He has other similar
suggestions he can make.

Sorry to have delayed so long in getting this to you but I seem to have
been on the road a lot this fall, the last trip having been two days


”mummy"

I‘HE DEAN OF THE GRADUATE SCHOOL ' MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTQOF TECHNOLOGY

Dr. Saville ' ' Jove-Mr 19. 1958

at the end of last week to;D:: n Proving m mare our

small group seems to have been abloto gin sons mom]. stimulation
and support over the past fur years. 7. . .,

  

While not providing the am you probably wanted, I hope thq forg-
going will be helpml to you.

Sincerely,

Harold L. Kazan
_ Dean

mum
Professor Korea


