Qffice Individuals Contact Frequency
Admissions Office Kingsbury weekly
Alumni Association Severance McCabe ,Smity ,McPortland daily
Alumni Placement every other day
Bursar's Office Quinn, Smith daily
Cashier's Office daily
Loan Fund Mathies weekly
Registrar Hewes, Groggett daily

In sddition to the above need for correct instruction from individuals in
charge rather than messengers, there is the ever-present problem of trans-
mtiummhodwutomrmmhdthmaum. In certain

cases the volume of cards is quite large (Alumni = 160,000; Registrar = 86,000,
ete. -- where each 10,000 cards weigh 60 1bs.) and the task of transporting
these cards cannot be minimized.

At the present time, the Alumni Assoc. provides a courier to
transport cards daily between Buildings 1 and 7. It must be recognized
that the present 'under shelter” route requires use of but one elevator;
whereas, theproposed move would necessitatewse of 3 elevators and outdoor
exposure, including dampness, raln and snow. (Needless to say, punched
cards which have been exposed to the elements will not function properly’
in standard IBM machines and will seriously impede the operational efficiency.)
It ie estimated that 1/2 hour will be required for each one-way trip. |

Several guestions naturallyarise: What is the proper calibre of
courier which must be employed for this transportation problem§j Under tbe
existing mode of operation, there have been occasiongl errors in inter-
office card handling. How will the incidence of error be affected under
the proposed systemj How much will the present operating costs be in-
creased? What effect will the increased cost have on the volume of
services rendered--particularly in view of the present mode of austerity
operation? (It must be remembered that each administrative office
currently cancels IBM work whenever the service costs are greater than
manual methods,” e.g. the Student Directory.)

 

gelf-Service Operation of IEM Equipment

The advent of the Card Programmed Calculator (CPC) and the use
of standard repetitive work programs oa other machines has resulted in
the extensive self-service use of the punched-card equipment. Specifically,
the following tabulation indicates some of the self-~gervice users:

Group Individuals

1. DACL Misses E. Eavanagh, M. Merwin and Nr. Isom

2. FCL Miss V. Brenton, Messrs. E. Larson and W. Whelan

3. Inst. Lab. Messrs. Battin, Frey, Laning, O'Eeefe, Block,
Prongay, and Dailey. MNisses Bain, Jeggetts, Petrick
and Sullkvan

4. NSL Messre. T. Martin, J. Hill, Nrs. Friedman and Staley

5. Math Messrs. Burrows, Glantz, Klein, Phipps and Segal

6. Physics Messrs. Corbato, Newstein, Temkin and Yilmas.