TRIP REPORT
on

Skidmore, Owings & Merrill
975 Madison Avenue
New York 22, N.Y.

I.B.M. Corporation
590 Madison Avenue
New York 22, N.Y.

April 30, 1956

F. BH. Verzuh
May 5, 1956


TRIP REPORT

PlacesVisited: Skidmore, Owings & Merrill
975 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.

I, B. M. Corporation
590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. ¥.

Date of Visit: Monday, April 30, 1956

Visited By: G. T. Hunter, IBM Corp, Cambridge
F. M. Verzuh, M.I.T., Cambridge

~ Individuals Contacted: Mr. Fred Gans, Skidmore, Owings, & Merrill
Mr. Saul Harber,

Mr. Pat D'Eri, Syska & Hennessy, Inc.
Mr, Anthony Tiliacos, Syska & Hennessy, Inc.

Mr, Verner Sturm, Severud-Elstad-Krueger

Mr. Robert Riley, EDPM Sales Engg. Dept., IBM Corp.
Mr. George Trovata, "
Mr. Payson Hunter, Mgr., Real Estate, IEM Corp.

& 6 Bb S&S %ELS

The purpose of this visit was to obtain definite information regarding
the nwtilization of the space in the basement and first floor of the M.I.T.
Computation Center in the Karl T. Compton Laboratory. The space involved is =
primarily concerned with the Type 704 Electronic Data Processing Machine,
Specifically, decisions were required on the following items:

1. Structural feasibility of removing the two columns located in
the 704 room on the first floor (Bay lines 3 and 4, respectively),

2. Possibility of installing a solid wall on the west end of the
machine room (removing the glass windows) to permit the installation
of necessary air conditioning ducts on the west wall,

3. Determine the best location for air conditioning ducts serving
the customer engineering area (400 sq. ft.), reception area
(800 sq. ft.), and schedule and dispatch and ready room (400 sg. £t.).


page 2

4. Evaluate the 704 machine room layout presented by Verzuh,

3. Evaluate the space requirements for the air conditioning unit
located in the basement,

6. Evaluate the space requirements Zor the power transformers
located in the basement,

7. Eveluate the space requirements for the EAM equipment located
in the basement,

8. Determine the location of the storage area required in the
basement.

Verzuh initiated the discussion by presenting a revised set of plans
for the 704 machine dated April 26. These plans corrected previous shortcomings
due to cable length limitations. After a brief consideration of these plans,

a number of changes were indicated as a result of the following agreements:

l. Fred Gans indicated that the two columns would be removed
from the 704 room,

2. Sturm agreed that a four foot~wide cement beam could be used
to support the resulting fifty-five (55')-foot span formerly
supported by the above-mentioned columns,

3. Tiliacos agreed that the air conditioning for the 704 could
be provided by ducts entering the west wall provided he was
given adequate room to "build" the ducts at the ceiling of
the 704 room. He also indicated that the air conditioning of
the customer engineering, reception, dispatch, etc., space
could be effected by small ducts entering these rooms near the
ceiling from the 704 room (Item 3 above).

As a result of the above three agreements, a slight revision in the layout of
the 704 room was necessery. Specifically, the entire machines were to be moved
forward toward the reception area since the columns have been removed. A new
set of floor plans is now being prepared tc effect this change.

The air conditioning people then presented their tentative floor plans
for the 704 area. The plans discussed were identical to those discussed at
M.I.T. on April 23 in the presence of Messrs. Peterson, Collin, D'Eri, Harber,
Hunter, and Verzuh. The cohsensus of the April 26 meeting was that the proposed
layout was unsatisfactory because of the large amount of space reguired --
alr conditioning - 1900 sq. ft., transformer area - 500 sq. ft., etc., leaving
less than 400 sq. ft. for the EAM equipment. Verzuh suggested that further
discussions of this layout be discontinued until the Syska & Hennessy group
reconsider their plans and examine those being prepared by Peterson at M.I.T.


page 3

In zn zttempt to obtain more
suggestions were msde, namely: room in the basement, 2 number of

 

1. BEemoval of the stairwell located in the basement,

r

3. Insist that approzimetely 2,000 sq. ft. of space is requi
for the z2ir conditioning. ’ 12 -

1t was mutually agreed that more thought and planning had to be given to
the disposition of space in the basement.

Verzuh discussed the location of partitions on the first floor.
The following changes were indicated:

1. The partition between the reception area and the dispatch area
was to be moved to its original site, namely, midway between
Bay 4 and 5 line, resulting in 2 reception area of 800 sq. ft. —=
which is more than adequate,

The wall between customer engineering and reception area is
to be 2 solid wall,

The wall between the dispatch and the reception area is to be
of glass,
The wall between the dispatch and tape room is to be of glass,

Se

 

4,

ed into the schedule room, dispatch to

5. Doors are to be insert
n the floor plan.

schedule, and dispatch area as indicated i

The meeting was closed with the statement that a new set of floor
plang for the 704 area will be submitted, and a new set of plans for the
nasement area will be provided by Syska & Hennessy. In addition, Mr. Gans
will be informed of the location of the glass walls, partitions, etc., in
the schedule and dispatch areas in the very near future.

 

F. M. Verzuh
May 5, 1956


