1036 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

PArT II: THREE-DIMENSIONAL STUDIES

In order to compare the two-dimensional measurements with those made in
three dimensions, the cross section of the deep tank had the shape of the
ellipse of FIGURE 1. The tank, shown in FIGURE 13, consisted of plastic
elliptical cylinder, 18 in. in depth, with the major axis of the cross section 12.6
in. (32.1 cm.) and minor axis 10.1 in. (25.7 cm.). The length of the periphery
was, therefore, 35.9 in. (91.3 cm.). Although models fashioned after a human
thorax**. 3 are more accurate for the specific subject, it was thought that
in view of the wide variations in body build between individuals, the ellipticai
tank would be sufficiently accurate for most purposes. Also, it has been shown
that the detailed shape of the torso is relatively unimportant. T found, how-
ever, that it was necessary to retain the elliptical cross section, since a circle
used to represent the thorax section gave less accurate results.

The measuring equipment was similar to that used with the flat tank ? ex-
cept that a new type of differential amplifier was designed to couple between
the search and reference electrodes and an oscilloscope. Two current elec-
trodes were mounted in the tank in a position corresponding to that of the
heart in the body, that is, nearer to the front and top of the tank. These
electrodes were mounted on insulated arms that were suspended from a cali-
brated disk. The disk was rotatable about both the horizontal and vertical
axes, so that any angle in space could be obtained. The measuring probe
consisted of platinum wire soldered to the end of a length of stainless-steel

RS

T e T, ¥
b, .

e T
e T A. 550
S e s S0

 

FIGUrRe 13. Deep tank and measuring equipment.

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1037

hypodermic-needle tubing. This assembly was inserted into a glass tube, and
the glass was sealed off around the platinum wire, leaving only the end ex-
posed. By means of a sliding-rod mechanism, the search probe could be
motor-driven around the periphery of the ellipse, giving the boundary-potential
distribution very quickly. The reference electrode was a piece of platinum
foil cemented to the bottom of the tank at the back.

The 500-cycle search and reference voltages from the tank were connected
to inputs 1 and 2 of the differential amplifier (FIGURE 14a). The voltages were
amplified by the two pentodes and applied to the primary of a transformer.
The output of the unit consisted of a voltage the magnitude of which, with
respect to ground, was proportional to the difference in voltage between the
search and reference electrodes. This voltage was applied to the Phase-Sensi-
tive Rectifier (FIGURE 14b). After passing through an attenuator, the signal
was amplified by the 6J7 and rectified by the 6H6 tube. The resulting DC
voltage was passed through a two-section filter and applied to the vertical
input of a cathode-ray oscilloscope. In order to provide polarity information,

S K.

    

 

0 400V.

Qutput to
Phase sensitive
Rectitier

 

From 1| RS 6H6GT/a
coupiing. '_mﬁ ”
unit i

FIGURE 14. Measuring circuits used with the deep tank.