3.0 INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY UTILIZATION OF THE RDA

The Instrumentation Laboratory expressed a desire to assume the res-
ponsibility for RDA operation in order that it might carry on design and
~calibration studies for new computing sights and asmunition which were under
current investigation in the Laboratory. Furthermore, certain Instrumentation
Laboratory contractusl comamitments were concerned with the development of im-
proved computing sights, and the solution of associated kinematic equationl
required the use of the RDA.

The Laboratory felt that the RDA was unique in its demomstrated capability
for hendling problems of that type. It mist be remembered that at that time
(1850) the status of present-day large-scale computers was not vhere it is at
the present time, and es a result, these calibration studies could be carried
out more effectively on the anslog machine.

As it turned out, this was a most fortunate decision on the part of the
Instrumentation Laboratory since it resulted in the désign of new lead computing
gsights which were used most effectively im propeller and jet combat over Korea.
In this regard, the Differential Analyzer again made a most valuable contribution
to the war effort.

In the meantime, however, there were continuous rumblings in the backgvoumd
concerning the removal and disposition of the RDA. It was clearly reslized that
this machine was indeed a very old computing machine by existing standards. As
a result, late in 1952, improved types of digital computing machines were obtained
(CPC, etc.) snd certain problems formerly solved on the Analyzer were trans-

JJ“tgrrod to ;yg“q;gital mechines. During this period a determined effort was made
to evaluate the performance of the Anelyzer both on an economic end engineerifig " -
basis. As the performance of the Whirlwind Computer improved and more inter-
pretive subroutines, conversion programs, floating decimal subroutines, etc. were
made available, it became increasingly epparent that & larger and larger portion
of the work done on the Differentifl Analyzer could be handled on the digital
egquipsent. Furthermore, as the RDA increasged in age its maintenance costs
naturally increased, and since the digital facilities had definitely become part
of the M.I.T. computational program, it became apparent that serious comsideration
should be given to the removel of the RDA.

4.0 SURVEY g!_ggE_APPLICATION OF THE DIFFERENTIAL ARALYZER

In retrospect, it is of imterest to point ocut some of the principal
contributions mede by the Amalyzer during its 12-year life at M. I.T. Ir
nust be remesmbered, of course, that its early applicetions were strongly in-
fluenced by World War II. ©Opecificelly, the machine was completed im 1842, and
since the applications during the period 1942-1945 were almost entirely of a
military character, the following types of problems were solved (in some cases
thousands of times):