EDITORIAL

232
' ' ,d be-
uilibrium is establishc‘Vhim
(l lectrostatic charges ' .
urf-ice of the meinbiant
s t

and a resting e
tween diffusion and (,

results in the inner . ‘ the ”um. surface
iying negative charges,
ear- c

Queh a double layer mem-
positive thlges' L - - ” olarized.” .
hrane - 'eri'ed t0 J3 P is concerned With
The H St basic pml'ﬂcmf the cardiac liber
the membrane potential 0 ream-(led in MO
itself. This has 110W beeIt"'lexistriiii.:: between
and in, iriruF'” V, ”1‘01"“? Hf the resting liber
the inside and the outsite ”he“ measured by
ranges from 80 to .100 ilmtiiiides. The trans—
glass (“pm“), "format 311-10 cardiac cell
membrane potentigil 351.: 5:10;; as the electro-
dlcilﬁiiiliorlhiiijf'lbiiftn of the membrane‘ilﬁgi
iwbhether it is neutral, acid or bass; 1111011113: m:
on the ionic concentratilijpjngt “in: (m their
th sides of the mem ', ‘ .. ‘4 ns
:ﬁetrochemical activities (ionic coiiytﬁgtﬁglf‘cr
and electromotive force). lhis may ti 1 tiff”,
speciﬁed by stating that tllile poteeliciéi‘flime are
' neasured by a capi ai'y .
:iigei‘eisult of electromotive forces 9ore-115111;:
(1) within the interior solution, (Tahiti (the
inner membrane boundary, (3) nit in one
membrane itself, (4) at the outer mem Ina m
boundary, and (5) in the exterior solutionii .
What is measured may be considered laigt y
a diffusion potential expressing ‘llow 0 ions
and of neutral molecules, but-it is furtherf
complicated by the almost certain ‘pl‘esellt'tﬁ 0
an “active transport mechanism (at least
for the Na ion) by which is meant the move-
ment of an ion “up hill” against the c ectro-
chemical gradient.
The basic considerations of diffusion po-
tentials were expressed for lirruid junction
boundaries of solutions containing di'ferent
concentratioiis of electrolytes by Max ’lanek
in lSillil as

   

 

. 7 [ST
7 HI"

(id-('2

(o i if n

log; c
where If expresses the gas constant, ’I' the
absolute temperature, F the Farad v equiva-
lent, and a the valency of the dili'usion ions.
1‘ and l' delinc ionic mobility in wat

 

ci', of
cation and anion respectively, the sub. ripts
denoting these values for the two sides of the

 

.. Recent theoretical work on merit
membraim rials and ionic ﬂuxes is based
brailC' pulrenl‘ this fundamental equation, with
essellt‘fylllﬁolnum “1],?”ng the general be
Planck s {Uljmrction potentials presumably
havlfil' I 1° to living ems sixty years before
apiikl‘ii?e)1:mcmciits could bc made from cardiac
suc ‘-

tissrie in situ.

 

 

RIBI'TIUN or ELEUI'RU'AL CURRENTS

DISTVOLUIE Coxocc'roies or prrxm
IN ._ . .
EXTENT

The laws which define the flow of 'crlirreots
' 1 “0013110118 volume conductors oi inﬁnite
11“ ioi have long been applied to electro.
eXt-Lll'hn'a )hie concepts and, though never
cauif'btiillv exp 'ed by Einthoven, were
:i’iizirleiitly well known to him aiull term tit:
basis for his geometric analyses.l l ic ‘coglclzﬁe
f a dipole layer (the basis ‘ol tic men: ‘
0h 'v) and of the distribution of Luiitnts iii
ioeliiiiie conductors were clearly. i'o'i'ignila'teglf
by Helmholtz in 1852.2 His-consideia1:;an
the general aspects of (the distributronh dyed
electric currents were timely enough a unl Y is
vears later to form the basrs for an arialylsn‘
of an centric dipole in a bomogenoyis Te 11nd.
by Wi son and Bayley” Mid to lay .14. leii'linﬁeld
work for a modern electr‘ocardio’g‘iap 1L 91-5
theory by McFee and Johnston.‘- 1 hcse pap ‘m
have-analyzed the Helmholtz contribution
del‘i‘fla volume conductor of inﬁnite extent; 13;:
potential, during activity, at some disarm
from a membrane may be expressed 3
relation”

(a) i' = e2

and since the electrical effects of the healit ﬂli
a whole mav be considered the sum 01":
individual cell membrane effects. the OXP‘B‘
sion may be written

 

(a) i' = so!

_ 7’ clitlrge
4; here exprcsses the “dipole moineiith, (dorilili
tiincs distance) which twists ailt‘h» 1 1 and”
. . A , . ,- ,r
iayer oi the membrane. It. is tonsidt it’

 

ed li,"
(a). $2 expresses the solid angle siibteiitiim.e 15
. , .~ ,
the incinbrano at a poiirt I’."- ”_11:L;.CW“ iii
dcpcndent on the distnncc (r) ”l I 1

ﬁ

EDITORIAL

boundary of the dipole layer of the membrane,
and on the angle 0 between the outward nor—
mal and (1'). For a single charged membrane
clement (Is, the expression becomes:

-<ﬂ

 

(3a) (I!) = (13.

 

Calculations of this sort assume that the mom»

branc conccpt is a corrc t one for which there
is ample evidence 1’ is assumed to be located
within a liomogcnous conductor which sur~
rounds the polarized membranc and is of iii-
linite extent. The relation of the potential
re irded at thc distant point 1’ to the val
existing,. at the actual surface of the
is what is brieﬂy symbolized as
cerncd with (b),

 

ue
membrane
fl and is con—

Trir: Erector 017 FINI'rn lioi‘yDAiuns ox
(‘i'nicex’r DiSTiuni‘Ton i\' VOLUME

Coxni‘c’rons

llclrnholtz also dos 'ibcd a special case of
finding: the potentials of a known clectromotive
force in a spherical conductor. The theorems
proposed by him allow the formulation

 

cos 9
1

(3b) l’ =

:

 

from which (3a) has been derived. It

applies
to a dipole .:

uated centrally within a sphere
and surrounded by an inﬁnite medium. The
potential recorded from a point located within
a lirnitcd spherical surface (l'i) may be given

as
21')
+ IT" ,

where r is the distance of the dipole from I’,
If the diameter of tlic sphcrc. This des 'ibes
a situation applicable to tinitc boundaries,
and was developed with reference to lCin»
thovens equations by Craib and (‘aiiﬁold.“
The inﬂuence of various shaped boundaries on
the distribution of currents within the enclosed
system of lll(‘ chest is obviously of considerable
int 'cst to those concci‘iicd with measuring;
cardiac action currents from the surface of
thc body. in a, papcr by C. \i. Nelson in this
issue,” the striking alterations in ciii'rcril How

 

(4) H" : ¢ cos 0<

 

 

233

iii the presence of

a boundary arc graphically
demon:

ited by the use of Bootbroyd’s double
layer electrolytic tank.16 In the past, in order
to establish a ﬁrm basis for a theory of the
electrocardiogram, the effects of boundaries
were conveniently neglected since apparently
no casy mathematical approach to this com-
plicating nuisance was on ban
out that the mathematic:
available since
by Lord Kc

   

(J. Nelson points
il solution has been
1845. This was clearly expressed
lvin,* by his method of electrical
images for the solution of boundary prob-
lems in highly conducting liquidsf‘ A lucid
description of his doctrine as given by his
biographer is appended. The image concept
was known to Wilson and is mentioned in a
paper from his laboratory‘7 but it seems to have
escaped gcneral attention.
of fundamental
method for sol

Nelson’s paper is

interest since it shows a
ving boundary problems in
electi'ocardiography, at least for straight line
boundaries and for boundaries of a circular
planc. It should be added that Thomson car-
ried the problem further for

the solution of
the effects of boundaries of

a sphere, but it
was Wt M. Hicks" who apparcntly first pub-
lished a complete anal s of spbcr al bound
aries in 1880,” According: to Hicks, the image
of an clcctrical source .\’ located within a
sphere of radius If at a distance a from its

       

center is a source .\" at the distance 7, and
a

a line of sinks reading from the image source
X‘ to inﬁnity.

;\ single observation may be cited which
points to the practical significance of considera—
tions of this kind: _\ zero point of reference,
the ideal position for an ideal indifferent elec-
trode, has always been considered to be lo—
cated halfway bctwccii thc source and sink
of a dipole. it is not so located if the boundary
is: taken into account.

This brief discussion should bring to mind
again the fact that the basic laws of electric
dcvclopcd during; the [EJtli century are
plicablc to 11 ill(‘(
today
ﬁeld hr

ity
up-
of clcctrocardiograpliy
in other disciplines. res ch in this
its roots in the past from which