BEIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIMULATION PROJECT
Transportation Engineering Division
Department of Civil and Sanitary Engineering
Massachugetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

October 4, 1960

 

Gentlemen:

As part of a cooperative research project with the
U.S. Bureau of Public Roads which is being conducted here
at M.I.T., we would appreciate any details that are avail-
able concerning highway traffic simulation computer programs
which have been completed or which are in progress. For
your convenience, forms have been prepared and are included:
if you feel the information asked for is incomplete, please
add whatever details you deem necessary.

Ag soon as the information from all agencies is collected
and prepared in annotated bibliography form, copies of this
report will be furnished to all agencies submitting data as
well as others who may profit from it.

My sincere appreciation for your cooperation.

Very truly yours,

Martin Wohl
Assistant Professor of

Transportation Engineering

Supervisor
Highway Traffic
Simulation Project

MW :mz


LIST OF AGENCIES TO WHOM THIS WAS MAILED:

 

Arborne Instruments Laboratories Mineola, New York

University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona
Automotive Safety Foundation Washington 6, D.C.
Bell Telephone Laboratories New York 14, New York
Birmingham University Birmingham, England

Brown University(Dept of Economics) Providence, Rhode Island
Brown University (Physical Sciences

Council) Providence, Rhode Island

California Institute of Technology Pasadena, California
Cornell University Ithaca, New York
University of California (ITTE) Richmond, California
Cambridge University Cambridge, England
Carnegie Institute of Technology Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
Case Institute of Technology Cleveland, Ohio
Central Road Research Institute New Delhi, India
Chicago Area Transportation Study Chicago 44, Illinois
University of Chicago Chicago 37, Illinois
Chrysler Motor Corporation Detroit, Michigan
Columbia University New York 27, New York
Copenhagen Telefon Company Copenhagen K, Denmark
University College Cork, Ireland
Cowles Foundation for Research
in Economics ~- Yale University New Haven, Connecticut
Technical University Delft, Holland
University of Durham Northumberland, England
University of Edinborough Edinborough, Scotland
Ford Motor Co. Detroit, Michigan
Centre Francais de Recherche

Operationelle Paris, France
General Electric Co. Phoenix, Arizona
General Motors Corporation Detroit 2, Michigan
Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta 13, Georgia
University of Glasgow Glasgow, Scotland
Harvard University Cambridge 38, Massachusetts

All Members of Highway Research

Board Committee on Theory of

Traffic Flow
IBM New York 20, New York
Illinois Division of Highways Springfield, Illinois
The Indian Statistical Institute Calcutta 35, India
The Institution of Civil Engineers London S W 1, England
Johns Hopkins University Baltimore 8, Maryland


rity of London
versity of Manchester
aiversity of Maryland

Michigan State University

Highway Traffic Safety Center
Michigan State University

Dept of Civil Engineering
University of Michigan

Dept of Electrical Engineering
University of Michigan

Transportation Institute
Midwest Research Institute
M.I.T. Operations Research
M.I.T. Computation Center
M.I.T. Department of Mathematics
Hochschule Munchen
National Bureau of Standards
New Jersey State Highway Dept.
The Port of New York Authority
New York University
Newcastle on Tyne University
University of North Carolina
North Carolina State College
Northwestern University

Department of Civil Engineering

Northwestern University
Technological Institute

The Ohio State University

Oxford University

RCA Labroatories

Ramo-Wooldridge

The Rand Corporation

Renssalaer Polytechnic Institute

Road Research Laboratory

Royal Institute of Technology

London, England
Manchester, England
College Park, Maryland

East Lansing, Michigan

East Lansing, Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Ann Arbor, Michigan
Kansas City 10, Missouri
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Germany

Bethesda 14, Maryland
Trenton, New Jersey

New York 11, New York

New York 3, New York
Newcastle on Tyne, England
Chapel Hill, North Carolina
Raleigh, North Carolina
Evanston, Illinois

Evanston, Illinois
Columbus, Ohio

Oxford, England
Princeton, New Jersey
Canoga Park, California
Santa Monica, California
Troy, New York
Middlesex, England
Stockholm 70, Sweden

Schweizerische Strassenverkehrsverband Bern, Switzerland

Stanford, University

Swiss Federal Institute of Technology

Texas A and M College

Texas Transportation Institute
Texas A and M College

Dept of Civil Engineering

Stanford, California
Zurich 6, Switzerland

College Station, Texas

College Station, Texas


Institute of Technology
- Bureau of Public Roads
siversity of Western Ontario

University of Pennsylvania
University of Wisconsin
Yale Bureau of Highway Traffic
Yale University

Department of Industrial

Administration

Tokyo, Japan

Washington 25, D.C.
Lordon, Canada
Philadelphia 4, Penna.
Madison 6, Wisconsin

New Haven 11, Connecticut

New Haven, Connecticut


HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIMULATION PROJECT

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
and

U. S. Bureau of Public Roads

Please fill out one form for each Highway Traffic Simula-
tion Computer Program which has been completed or is in pro-
gress and return to:

Professor Martin Wohl

Room 1-131

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Responsible Agency:

 

Supervisor of Project and Title:
Address:
Cooperative Research? { _l Yes |_INo If yes with whom?

 

 

 

Name of Simulation Program

 

 

Brief statement of program objectives and output:

 

 

 

 

 

Real time to computer time ratio (actual or estimated):
Has the program been flow charted? |__lves | INo

Has the program been coded? {ves [Ino

Has the program been debugged?*|[ |ves{ INo

What computer and machine language were or will be utilized?

 

*j.e. are all errors corrected?


[EE

 

,ding and "debugging" are not completed, can you give an
_imated date of completion?

 

Lf the program has been "debugged" has the output been com-
pared with field test data? [| _ |Yes| |No

(a) If yes are program results valid? [Ives [Ivo

(b) If the computer results have not been tested,
do you intend to carry out a testing program at
some later date? [Yes [No If yes, when?

Is a writeup of the computer program available? lves L_INo
(If yes, please enclose a copy with this questionnaire.)

Have the results of the field testing been written up?
lves| Ino (If yes, please enclose a copy.)

Do you plan to initiate further research in highway traffic
simulation? |___lYes |__{No

If yes, please describe briefly.

 

 

 

On the next page are the agencies to whom this questionnaire
has been submitted. If there are other agencies which might
be writing traffic simulation programs please add the names
and addresses in the blanks below:

Name Address

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thank you for your cooperation.


