; )l}' .'(_.,

 

y¥), ol

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
WASHINGTON 25,D.C. IN REPLY REFER TO

ONR : 405 : FIW :al

Professor P. M. Morse, Director
Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Mass.

Dear Professor Morse:

The Commander, Naval Proving Ground, Dahlgren, Virginia, has
recently formed an Advisory Board of outstanding scientists to assist the
Proving Ground's Computation and Exterior Ballistics Laboratory in the
formulation and conduct of its program. To date the following have agreed
to serve on this Board: Dr. S. N. Alexander, Director of the Data
Processing Division, National Bureau of Standards; Dr. C. C. Bramble,
Director-emeritus of the Dahlgren Ballistics Laboratory and now a consultant
to the Bureau of Ordnance Special Projects Group; Dr. Mina Rees, Dean of
the Faculty, Hunter College; and myself as the Board's chairman. Speaking
for the Naval Proving Ground as well as for myself I should like to extend
you our most cordial invitation to join the Board, hoping very much that
you will consent to round out its membership. The Naval Proving Ground

will promptly follow through with appropriate formsl arrangements should
you be willing to serve.

Of the three Proving Ground Laboratories, Computation and Ballistics
has scientifically the most variegated and challenging scope. As manager,
in particular, of the NORC facility it is developing activities which mesh
its work with Naval problems on a broadening front. Particular emphasis
is currently being given to expansion of the scope of the Laboratory's
program in three directions: Mathematical and computational work in connection
with missile trajectories and satellite orbits, the methods and practice of
handling massive management data, and quantitative war games simulation.

The Laboratory's staff is looking to the Board for advice on the
technicel substance of these evolving programs as regards empheasis, approach,
and orientation. The Board itself will meet about twice a year, generally
at Dahlgren unless its work should necessitate meetings elsewhere. In
addition, individual members might occasionally wish to visit the Proving
Ground to assist with problems in which they have a particular personal
interest. The next meeting is scheduled for Monday, 21 April, at Dahlgren,
and I am enclosing a copy of the tentative agenda to give you an impression
of the sort of discussions in which you would find yourself participating.