Sl

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be offered? Should
courses on machine coding be given for credit or as short courses without credit or as
parts of other appropriate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual content,
intimately involving computing machines, are being given and in what departments ?

4. Computing service to university departments: Who in the college should be
given "free time'"'? What priority system can be set up in case of overdemand? How does
one distinguish between free and paying users? What are appropriate forms for interde-
partmental supervisory committees to administer such a service program?

5. Government relations: How should work done under Government contracts be
charged? Would it be feasible to establish a uniform scale of charges for the various
machines and services throughout the country?

According to tentative plans, the Conference will be held during two and one
half days on April 23-25, 1960, to be allocated approximately as follows. A half-day
session on Saturday afternoon, April 23, will be devoted to invited addresses on the above
topics. This session should be of interest to many members of the Society not directly
concerned with the management of a university computing facility.

The remaining two days of the Conference would be work sessions for an
invited group of representatives of university computing laboratories. It is estimated
that there would be approximately 85 members of this group. Their object would be to
study the above five topics, answer a number of questions concerning them, and edit the
findings as Proceedings of the Conference. The plan is for the group to divide itself into
five subgroups, to discuss the above topics in simultaneous sessions on Sunday, April 24.
Each of these subgroups would elect two representatives to present the conclusions of the
day's deliberations to the full meeting of the Conference the next day. On that day these
conclusions would be further discussed and if necessary modified for final recommenda-
tions.

It is expected that the committee planning the Conference will consist of
Professors Philip M. Morse, M.I.T., Chairman; Walter Freiberger, Brown University,
Secretary; Alex Orden, University of Chicago; J. W. T. Youngs, Indiana University,
and perhaps one or two other members, to be selected by the chairman of the committee.

The Society would be responsible for making suitable arrangements for
adequate accommodations for the Conference and for seeing to it that local administrative
matters are properly handled. The Conference would be suitably announced and adver-
tised in the NOTICES of the American Mathematical Society. The Society will handle the
printing and distribution of the Proceedings of the Conference. It is planned to distribute
one free copy of the Proceedings to each of the approximately 160 Institutional Members
of the Society and to each of the participants in the Conference. Additional copies will be
distributed, at no charge, as directed by the planning committee.

Proposed Budget

We have estimated that there will be 60 grants for travel expense and per
diem. The average travel grant is estimated to be $150 and the average per diem $60 or
five days at $12 per day.