e

all machine shop stock and RDA spare parts (total cost $2970). We alse
agreed to finish a vector table to complete RDA obligations to another
Air Force contract. However, we have never handled all of the charges

to noneInstrumentation Laboratory users because of limited understanding
of our authority. BHoth Prof. Morse's Committee on Computation and Mr.
Verzuh have worked most coeperatively with us in making decisions, but

we have not pressed our views where honest differences of opinion existed,
The RDA performance of our work has been so excellent and Mr., Verzuh has
worked so hard in our interest that it would have been very unfair to have
done otherwise, However, there is still some confusion in our minds as te
the proper charging for non-Instrumentation Laboratory usage. ilso, Mrs.
Hogan's resignation and Mr, Verzuh's possible shift of responsibility are
additional factors that make it necessary to understand the responsibility
clearly so that changes can be made as needed and approved by the proper
persons., Unclear separation between RDA and Statistical Services and con-
tinued use of the old Electrical Engineering Department account #2349 for
RDA would seem to be the basis for any differences of opinion that exist
on fiscal matters,

Section 3,0 INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY REGUIREMENTS FOR RDA

Calibration for new ammunitions and tactics of sights designed by
Dre. Draper and now in service require use of the RDA, In addition, our
current contract calls for development of improved sights, and the solution
of the kinematic equations involved require use of RDA,

The machine is unique in its demonstrated capability, and all
proposed alternatives have either failed to handle the problem or are yet
to be demonstrated, Past efforts have been made with Harvard's Computation
Laboratory; current efforts are attempting to apply Whirlwind to the problem.
Instrumentation Laboratory is devoting the effort of two full-time engineers
to devising and testing other machine methods,

In the meantime, we feel that in order to execute our current
obligations, we must have the continued use of the RD4, In the absence of
& definite proven alternate, we are very anxious to be assured of the use
of the analyzer for at least two years, It is further suggested that the
situation be reviewed at the end of the year, at which time more information
on alternate methods should be available, Appendix C contains a more detailed
description of the technical phases of the calibration problem.

Section 4,0 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE USE

l, Reassign primary responsibility to the Instrumentation Laboratory.

2e¢ Have Mr, P, Cusick approve fiscal arrangements for non-Instrumenta-
tion Laboratory worke. Preper billing can be handled very simply.
A1l Instrumentation Laboratory persens are now charged te DIC #6346
and allocated out at the end of the month, according to information

o
P e e o i B ey