gl

- Page 8

w3 | Jetal iat . gers
@ srmry-espd seeisal
. Tinagy eards

»

ummmuﬁd”hhwounnthmu
v fullawing s

s e Go-1ike printer .
B Off=Lipe privter |
.~ Off -1ims punch

The four eXpreMsliens, taken togsl.er, campletely specify a single output request.
As an exampls , the card

¢ iR SABGW,SHZ-&,PLO,FPU

will ocause the post-mortem routine to record the contente of registera SABCH7
through SXYZe2, as floating-point numbors, on the :nagnetic tepe desiznated for
use with the off«line card punch. After obeying this request the routine will,
in the absence of menual interventionm, proceed Uo obey the next card in sequence.

———————————

Remarke--the Pk Card

Following the four expressions in the variable field of the FLR card
and peparated from them by at least ome blank ecolumn, there may appear sany alpha-
mmerical comnent. This comment will be reproduccd by the post-mortem routine,
and will appear immediately preceding the first line of output resulting froan the
PMR card. In the case of punched output, the comment will appeur as &an REM
card, which is ignored dy SAP.

In sddition, REM cards themselves will be read by the post-mortem
routine, and will be treated in the samé way as comments in the variable fiseld.
isoh RE: card will be recorded just before the nemt following riR card is cbeyed.
Thie facility provides the user with a method for lubelling the post-mortem
output and identifying his resulis.

Terminating the Post-mortem--the TRA, TTR, and HTR Cards

PUR and RE! cards will be read in sequence until a card terminating tae L
sequence is encountered. Tnis terminating card must contain one of the operati.ns
TRAs TTR, or HIR in its operation f'ield; the variatle field expresses an address
exactly as it does in SAP. In response tO one of these terminating instructions,
the contents of core memory und of the arithmetic element will be regtored and tae
terminating instruction will be exscuted. This permits eitier resuming, compubtation

or halting the computer after the completion of the posv-mortem request sequence.
The Symbol Table

. The use of synlols by the post-mortem routine implies that the symbol
table will be mude uaccessible to ite. With the SHARE Assembly Program in its

present form, this is most conveniently accomplished by using the binary symbol-
table deck provided by the asscmblere. 4 = Yo

- If.a.ny symbols at all appear in the request curds, this binery deck must
be inserted in the curd reader together with the roquest curds. No binary louder
should be used, for the synbol table will be read by the post-mortem routine to

& core memory locetion which does not necessarily coincide with tne location