(Additional copies are available for assistants and assoclates who
were unable to attend the course.) Particular attention should be
paid to the distinction between the computer proper, the SHARE
compiler (SAP), and FORTRAN. 1In addition the value of working out
the programming exercises should be emphasized.

As further exercises, 1t 1is suggested that closed sub-
routines be written for generating

fi-and eX. The variable x, which
i1s specified on entry into the subroutines, may be considered a
normalized floating point number of either single or double regis-
ter precision. In elther case use the following numerical tech-
nigques. For the square root subroutine, Newton's method should be
employed. You should verify that this reduces to the iterative

formula:
(V) %[W%'{ > ur'i)J

Give alarms (i.e., stop the computer) i{ x is negative or un-
normalized. For the exponential subroutine, & number y should be
found such that 0L y<1, and ‘

v (eY) = e*. Compute the exponential
of y by the power series expansion and then raise_to the n th
power. Give alarms if x is unnormalized or if e overflows or
underflows the floating point range. In writing all subroutines,
use the conventlons of the SHARE compller. Finally, make estimates
of the accuracy and operating times of these subroutines.

The current headquarters of the Computation Center are
at the M.I.T. Digital Computer Laboratory located in the Barta
Building at 211 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge 39, Mass. I will
have an office at this address and can always be contacted through
either of two secretaries there, Miss Mary Reilly (Telephone exten-
sion 3764) and Miss Georgia Nagle(TeleEhone extension 3762). The
M.I.T. telephone number is UNiversity 4-6900.

Due to the presence of classified work (Project Lincoln)
in a portion of the Barta Building, there 1s a securlty guard at
the door. All persons entering and leaving the building have to
8ign in-and-out and have an identification badge. On your first
visit to the Center, ask at the desk for Mary Rellly or Georgia
Nagle, who willl see that you are issued an identiflcation badge.

In general it will not be necessary to inform the Center
in advance of your visits. However, if you wish to see a particu-
lar staff member, then an appointment should be made. In additim,
you should inform me of your first vicit so that I will be sure to
be available. This first visit should be at your earliest convenience
after the beginning of your fall semester.

Gl
; =
. J. Corbato
Research Assoclate

 

oy PP N g - - R e g 4—