MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

March 1, 1957

Dx, F. L. Foster
Room 5-105

P., M. Morse and F. M. Verzuh
Continuation of Contract NSori06001

 

In accordance with our conversations with the following ONR
representatives,

Dr. F. Joatuin Heyl, Director of Math Sciences Bivision;
| Washington, D. C.

Dr. Arthur Grad

Dr. Carl F. Mukenhaupt, Chief Scientist, ONR, Boston

we recommend that you apply to ONR for an extension of the existing
contract (Project 6345) without additional funds for the fiscal period
1957-58.

Becauge of the delay in the completion of the new

Earl T. Compton Laboratory, it will be impossible to install the
IBM Type 704 Electronic Data Processing Machine at M.I.T. on March 1
as we originelly scheduled. As a result, it will be impossible for us

to release our use of the Whirlwind Computer on June 30, 1957 as
originally scheduled. It is very important that we have adequate time
fo install the 704 and make the necessary conversion of programs from
Whirlwind to the 704 language. This means that there will be some period
of time during which dual operation of both the 704 and Whirlwind Computers
is in effect. It is difficult to determine in advance the exact termina-
tion date of our use of the Whirlwind facility. However, as we discussed
at our meeting, we shall notify you of the termination date as soon as
this information becomes available.

Extending the present contract without additional funds for the
above-requested lZ-month period will permit us to effect a smooth
transition from the Whirlwind machine to the 704; furthermore, it will
provide us with the necessary time to prepare the final summary report
for this contract.

Since we are not requesting any additional funds for this
exiension, we have not prepared the usual estimated budget requirements.
This is, of course, in accordance with our discussions at our meeting
on Thursday, February 21.

Aliso, in gecord with these discussions, we are currently preparing
ao proposal to be submitted to ONR for a specific roscarch program, which
would be set up as 8 sepevete project within the new MIT Computation Center,
designed to make more e2fective use of the Type 704 machine. This
prbposal will include résenrch items of a mathematical nature
a8 we discussed with Weyl. A separate request for ONR


=D

funds will be made gt Soue later date at our mutual convenience. It is
our intention to terminate the present ONR project effective June 30, 1958,
and any new Programs with the MIT Computation Center will be set up as a
Separate and completely new project.

On Janusry 31, 1957 the unexpended balance in Project 6345 was
$87,339. jr We assume that the present average monthly expenditure of
$10,000 Continues, there will be an unsxpended balance of $27,000 in thig
account on June 30, 1957. This is sufficient to allow us to complete the
above-mentioned task orders during the succeeding figeal period--with the
much reduced complement of personnel.


