—- ov

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

a ——r i ————————————

and Utilization--investigation into
the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research: including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibllitles of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis
and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organizing what
should be one of the most fruitful centers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from 1ts departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated thelr Interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be thelr Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there 1s an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and baslc research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, englneering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine


ey

operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and social Sclences and in engineering.

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central Ir'ésearch group, The group's work will,
In part, provide dn expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis ang Programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
Will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the Senior staff fop Such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute, Part of it is the group whieh
developed Whirlwing I Programming: others are in various departments
of the Institute, From time to time, some of the staff of the
Participating colleges would Join it for a Semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full-time at the Center,

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. Ve believe that a contribution of
about 100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
résearch group, which Will energize and take the lead in the re-
Search carried on at the Computation Center by Students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges. Ve ligt later in this
Proposal some of the 8pecific research Projects we are preparad to
start on. Other Projects will develop naturally from these ang
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center.

The project would not start at full 8trength. The 7014 will
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytic
Work can be started before the machine is installed, The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be Supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. We estimate that a totaj budget of £60,000 would
Suffice for the next academic year, 290,000 for 1957-58 and £100,000
for 1958-59. Details are glven later in this Proposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the Program should be re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial Support i
from both dgeticles, an equal Share from each, We believe the work |
can be divided so “hat “eharate contracts ean be written. Some of
the proposed taske would be Alfferent, though some of the broader
Yields of Investig ticn oulg overlap. We would hope that we could

[=


=H

put out a combined progress report. In some published papers,
credit could be given to one organization alone; in others, credit
would go to both. Bookkeeping would be somewhat more complicated,
but since most of the expense would be for salaries, little for
permanent equipment, this could be done. It probably would be
necessary to have the usual government overhead for both contracts.

The proposed budget asked of each agency for 1956-57 is
given below. The corresponding amounts for the following two years
would be gi5,000 for 1957-58 and $50,000 for 1058-59, as indicated
above,

Proposed Research; Possible Initial Directions of Investigation:

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input
languages; the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical,
logical or business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and automatic
error analysis. :

3, Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more general
expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomlals sums for simulating
standard functions by a common block of instructions but small
separate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and methods of
automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial plus
Richardson extrapolation or other means,

i, Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems. |

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques
for communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible lmprove-
ments in input-output equipment.


6.

lf -

Investigation of new techniques and applications of

linear programming, including procedures analogous to the methods
of steepest descent developed by Hestenes and Stiefel for the
solution of linear equations.

7
(a)

(b)

(e)

(a)

Computations of interest in pure mathematics:

Character table of selected characters of the
symmetric group.

Checking congruences of interest in algebraic
number theory. 5

Further extension of factor tables and prime
number lists past 1012 via the sieve of Erastosthenes
utilizing, say, Corbato's new factoring program.

Coding of Tarski's declsion method for elementary
algebra and geometry. Tarski has shown that ele-
mentary algebra and geometry can be decided by a
computer. To implement this would be a task of
considerable magnitude, but it would illustrate the
logical capabilities of a computer to a degree not
heretofore done.

8. Techniques for achieving fully automatic computer
operation and logging. These will be investigated as an integral
part of the computing system.


=H

Facilities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TOW
Electronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage unlts
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
Bacins rental, in excess of 250,000 per month, will be donated by

 

 

" The Type 70% EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and =
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel: Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Associated with
he Project

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first Bush
differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his
Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physics” (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about 2a hundred journal articles, many of which glve re-
sults obtained from machine computation. For further bilographilc
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

 

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at MIT
since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1G40. He
18 the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers”
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis" (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who will head Ghe programming research


Oa

group in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in
Electrical Engineering at Michigan, spent four
work in Mathematics at Purdue and is

and with Whirlwind I. His Salary will

connected with the Operation of MIT computational work since 1840,
In this capaclty he has hag considerable experience with the
utilization of various analogue Computing equipment--differentiaj
analyzers, etec., as well a8 a complete line of digital machines

Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Sc.D, degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his Salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center (see Appendix A) will be
available for advice and cooperation. From time to time, 1f one

of them can supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may
be charged to the Project.

 

 

Full-Time Members of the Pro ject

These will Include some former members of the Whirlwind
programming research group, such as Frank Helwlg and Sheldon Best,
and others. Some of the best of the IBM research assistants at the
Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate periods, at

full time, after they have finished their graduate work and relinquished
their assistantships,


“7 -

Budget for 1956-1957

(ONR and nNgp combined, 1/2 to pe charged to each)

Salaries

Fractions of Salaries of Senior Scientists

Pri

neipal Investigator (8 per cent or
$12,500)

Other Faculty Members
(1/3 of $9,000 and 1/3 of 27,500)

3
Salaries of Full-time Starr
5 Senior Investigators (at 87,500)
Junior Investigators (at 26,000)

ecretary~Typist (at $3,000)

2

—

S

n (computer, programmer )

-~
LA

Total Salary
Overhead (see note at end of budget)
Permanent Equipment

(desk computers
ete.)

>» Special input equipment,
Expendable Equipment

Travel

Publication Costs

Total Yearly Budget
See note on next pag

3 2,000

5,500

22,500
12,000
3,000
5,000
$50,000
20,000

6,000
1,000
2,000

_1,000

$80,000
e)





APPENDIX A

MEMBERSHIP OF M.XI.T. MACHINE COMPUTATION COMMITTEE
Prof. Philip M. Morse, Chairman

Physics
Prof. Samuel H. Caldwell Electrical Engineering
Prof. Herman Feshbach Physics 0
Dr. Jay W. Forrester Electrical Engineering ;
Prof. Francis B. Hildebrand Mathematics
Prof. Chia-Chiao Lin Mathematics

Prof. James B, Reswick Mechanical Engineering

PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITIES AND INSTITUTE REPRESENTATIVES

Bates College, Prof. Karl S. Woodcock, Head, Department of Physics
Bennington College, President Frederick Burkhardt
Boston College, Rev. William G. Guindon, Head, Department of Physics
Boston University, Dean Duncan E. Macdonald, Graduate School
Bowdoin College, Prof. Reinhard L. Korgen, Dept. of Mathematics
Brandeis University, Prof. David Falkoff, Dept. of Physics
Brown University, Prof. William Prager, Chairman, Physical Sciences Coun,
Dartmouth College, Prof. John McCarthy, Dept. of Math. and Astronomy
Harvard University, Prof. Guy H. Orcutt, Dept. of Economics
Middlebury College, Dean John G. Bowker, Prof. of Mathematics
Northeastern University, Prof. Martin W, Essigmann, Head, Dept. of E.E.
Tufts University, Dean Leonard C. Mead, Graduate School
Unlv. of Connecticut, Prof. Ralph J. Kochenberger, Dept. of Engineering
Unive. of Maine, Dean Ashley S. Campbell, College of Technology
Univ. of Mass., Prof. John H. Karlson, Dept. of Elec. Eng.
Univ. of N. H., Prof. Robert B. Davis, Dept. of Mathematics

2 Ri: JI. effet TET eyer, eT rn es pr TT -
a 2 vermont, Prof. Ivan R. Hershner, Chalrman, Dept. of Math.
Wellesley College, Prof. Janet Guernsey, Dept. of Physics
Wesleyan University, Prof. Hing Tong, Dept. of Mathematics
Williams College, Prof. Donald E. Richmond, Chairman, Dept. of Math.
Worcester Polytechnic Inst., Prof. Richard N. Cobb, Dept. of Math.
Yale University, Prof. A. J. J. van Woerkum, Dept. of Astronomy


