LOCATION
FIELD

LOCATION
COUNTER

COMVON pscudo-operation or has becn mad: the synonym of

4 common cxpression by th: SYN or EQU pseudo-opzration.

Any symbol which is not absolute or common is "'relocatablec."

In particular, a symbol which occurs in the location field

of a 709 machine operation is r:locatabl:.

The location field of an instruction should either be blank

or contain a single symbol, possibly preceded and/or followed

by blanks. Th: normal purpose of using a location symbol is

to give a "name" to tiae instruction with which the location

symbol is associated, so that the instruction may be referred

to by this name in other instructions of the program. Symbols

are also used as the names of locations containing data used

by a program, and as the names of parameters.
Symbols may be '"defined" in two ways. A symbol may be defined

by placing it in the location field of some instruction, or

it may be defined by identifying it as the name

program,

of a sub-
Every symbol used in the program must be defined

exactly once. A list of duplicately-defined symbols is

given immediately preceding the program listing, and a 1list

of undefined symbols is

The assembly process consists of two passes. The first

pass involves building a dictionary. This dictionary contains

the numerical value and the type (absolute, common, oOr re-

locatable) of each symbol. The second pass uses this diction-

ary to substitute for cach symbol in the variable field its

value as computed in the first pass. The assembler keceps

track of symbol values by use of the "location counter,"

At the besinning of each pass, the location counter is set

to zero (or the length of the transfer vector--see below).

Each time a machine instruction is encountered, the location

counter is increcased by one. Thus when a symbol appears

in the location field of an instruction, the value assipgned

to that symbol corresponds to the location that instruction

will occupy during execution of the program. Pseudo-operations

e

given at the end of the program listing,

rQ
; '71U§."55101\b

[4:_\1