Social Science Research Council

WASHINGTON OFFICE
726 Iackson Place. N.W., Washington 6.1). C.

TELEPHONE METROPOLITAN s-Irlo

May 27 , 1957

Professor Philip M. Morse
Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Profeseor Morse:

The American Sociological Society and the American Anthropological
Association have planned a joint session on “Roles Played by Sociologists
and Anthropologists in Operations Research" to be presented at the annual
meeting of the Society in Washington next August. In View of your own
longstanding concern with operations research, and in the light of your
present interest in the application of machine methods of computation in
social science research, we would greatly value your participation in the
symposium session in the role of general discussant. Your discussion
might be addressed to the larger questions posed by the session as well
as to the papers themselves. You would, of course, be provided with
abstracts of the latter well in advance of the meeting, but we would not
burden you with a request for a formal paper. Ten to fifteen minutes of
rather free-wheeling discussion would do very nicely.

rl‘he enclosed memorandum by Dr. Richard H. Williams will serve to
acquaint you with our plans for the session. Additional papers will be
presented by Chris Agyris, social psychologist of Yale University; Allan
H. Holmberg, anthropologist of Cornell University; George Petty, a
political scientist with the Operations Research Office of Johns Hopkins
University; Charles Coates, a sociologist and psychologist currently
engaged in a project dealing with the role of social science in research
on military problems; and Thomas Gladwin, an anthropologist with the
National Institute of Mental Health.

I am sure I speak for all concerned - including the potential
audience — in saying that we greatly hope you will be able to accept
this invitation. I shall look forward to hearing from you, and I hope

you will feel free to raise any questions you might have concerning
the session.

Your 5 sincerely,

ﬂdﬂwé

Joseph B . Casagrande

   
 

cc: Dr. Richard El.
Dr. Thomas G .,

Jilliams


