COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
HMinu3tes of the Sixth Meeting
February 11, 1954

Persons Present: C. S. Draper; J. W. Forrester, F. B. Hildebrand,
J. A. Hrones, J. H. Laning, Jr., C. C. Lin,
W. McKay, P. M. Morse, W. W, Seifert

Morse brought up to Draper, McKay and Laning the gues-
tion of the future of large computing machines at the Institute,
particularly in connection with teaching and educational research.
He raised the question whether instruction in machine methods was
important and whether this required the support of large and ex-
pensive machine installationz by the Institute. Draper said that
aeronautical engineers now had to be conversant with machine tech-
niques, that ajirplane manufacturers were using large machines in
increasing numbers and they expected the men they hire to know
how o use them. The sort of training that was needed was about
3 or 4 weeks for each of 50 undergraduates, during which time
each student should have some chance to operate the machine him-
self. Acquaintance with a digital machine was as necessary as
acquaintance with analogue equipment. There was not time to
schedule a full-term course in this; it must be fitted into one of

the departmental courses, in their opinion.

Additicnal machine time was needed for graduate student
and staff research. This would need as big a machine as could be
made available. It was not clear, however, how big a2 machine
would be needed for the undergraduate training, but they felt it
should be at least as fast as the card program calculator and
probably faster, to give the students the experience of programming
a high-speed digital machine. Draper felt that funds for the
support of such equipment should be provided and should be sought.
He agreed that it was inefficient to try to use DIC project- _
supported machines for the basic training and educational research.

Morse showed the Committee members a draft of a proposal
for a Tables Conference (appended) which he suggested could be
shown to Stratton for transmitting to the National Science Founda-
tion. The Committee approved this suggestion.

The next meeting of the Commlittee will be at 3:00 p.m.

on VWednesday, March 10.

Chairman