femorandum To

From r,li.llorse, Director ii. I. T. Computation Center.

subject: Replaceuent of 704 by a 7090.

Background - In June, 1957, somewhat less than three years
ago, 8, wes installed at the Computation Center by IB, under
a special agreement whereby IBH maintains the equipment, contri
butes toward amortizing the additions to the Compton Laboratory
which house the Center and supports a number of research 3ssoe
clates who assist users of the machine, and IIT staffs and oper
ates the Center for the use of MIT and other cooperating New
England colleges and universities. The primary purpose of the
arranizement is to enable students and faculty of these instit-~

utions to learn how to use high-speed computing machines, so that
the next generation of scientists, engineers and industrial exec
utives will be familiar with machine capabilities == in other
words the primary purpose is to demonstrate that such machines
are as important a part of the educational equipment of a modern
college as are chemistry laboratories, for example. A secondary
purpose is To foster research in the use of computing machines,
particularly in those fields of applicetion which have not yet
been explored or exploited fully.

To this end, priority on 704 time has been accorded to
regular class use by courses in machine programning and applicas=.
tions, to students using the machine in their thesis research
and to research projects investigating new techniques of machine
use, Particular attention hes been given to m making it easy for
the out-of-town users: mail service, special scheduling during

[=e

Visits and ETRY operation for those who cannot come to Cam-

ld

DI]

j=
Qu
09
@
Qo
fut
I=
[
3
b
3
~4
“4
v
®
fue
¥
Oo
=
ns
~~
<
in
&

 

BRIT LU SA A. Ol

" 2 1 ~ ES -— P—- Joe] - v Tay nf wm yn v1 71 v3 oped - oo du ~~ ~~ or
which use time on the machine, in addition to the sequence of


: - 2 -

special ceding courses which are given by the Center staff during
cach term and summer, A number of other colleges bring some of
their classes in for one or more laboratory sessions. Class use
will expand further, but its expansion will be harpered by the
limitations of access to the 704, as will be discunzed later,

The use of the machine by the other celleges has expanded
rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their work
(including their class exercises), But this use tente to be self-
liniting for, as scon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec-
iate the possibilities in education and research of cownlent, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campus,
By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions hve pachines J -
of thelr own. These are smaller machines, of the 650 £33Gy 0 peppalid
these instituions still come to the Center to use the 704 for their
‘bigzer jobs; but it does mean that the use of the Center iy the :
other Hew fngland colleges will tend to level off to a reciwnable
load (about one shiff, it now appears) rather than growing sontin-
uously, as the {IT usage is doing. Tals result, of course, is in
accord with our conviction that computers should be as preva. ant
as chemistry laboratories. |

In contrast, the LIT use of the 704 for research into 1sw
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy 11
chine time for such work, let alone routine projict

requests for ma
calculations of the''production-run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which

has heretofore been reserved for IPL use. In addition to the
research in solid-state theory, in meteorology and oceanography,
C end completely on machine conputation and could
already use more time thali we can aliaot them, There are a number
rojects which are basic to the development of new
computers and, indeed, To the developnent of computers
ich ave already handicapped by shortage of machine

0
Pr DOE 3, { ome) en YY OOTY TINO O =1 cer C ta i
Gf All 012d ne Leave. ODE) Ue CLL Slicer ww LCL.

SE Rm———— ea me taped] a ACAD Ll

oped an automatic operator rouvine which is being adopted by other

hes already devel-

~My: ~ . wir mgt | ory «mv L Cr - en 3 1 . aT, a Ale} Are
04 users. iiore g ssembly programs; such as the linling


ww A -

loader, which combines Fortran, SAP and other special codes; COLIT,
which enables the 704 to be used on language translation problems;
end LISP, which enables the machine to handle non-computatreonsd
logic, such as algebralc and other symbolic manipulation, are
being developed and tested, The work at LIT in This field, since
wnirlwind days, is well known.

-

Time-sharing Technigues: ve already have a typewriter connected
to the 704, vhich works on a time-sharing basis with our regular
operator routine, so new programs can be debugzed ot the same vime
that regular computations are being carried out on other problems,
for example. The 704 cannot effectively accomodate more than one |
or two such sa telite chennels, but the Center staf is now at work | a
on tg design and programning required to provide a 7090 with |/0 “24-0
to 3 such "substation consoles” of various effective speeds and
capacities, which can be placed at appropriate places around LIT,
some perhaps in class rooms. ng
lischime-puided Dducation: Computers csa, of course, aid in
grading examinations and do other clerical tasks incidental to
large classes. Bub computers also can be programmed to cerry out
some of the detailed questlon-and-answer interchange which occurs
in pecitation sections. ‘The Center staff is now working with the

bd

ancuage Department at LIT to program the 704 Go guide a siudent

ct

hrough sone of the phases of learning a new language, and (re

discussing the possibilities of training students in the detiils
of mathematical manipulation by machine. Iere the machine viculd
pose questions for the student to answer and, on the basis of the
amswers, would mo on to other questions, as in a Te

1
CT
3
5
i
=
Gr
et
[=
3
:,

: c
To avoid intolerable congestion at the main input consolg, Fa deen
students must be able to work with the machine simultaneouslye ove

r

a +
x

. » . 2 2 - " - nn dem de 3 5} - 4
sharine machine time with resular Ccomputatioh. Therefo
-— wn whe doe by Aad die LL, hd LE 2 A ry ~ “ot kg

- Lal . ot — " —— Ah ~— - - -
progrons which can only progress effectively if the machine 18
: rl
3 G TF alcul S13 n immediate demand and= FLA
able GO Caxfl J Qty Ca 1.300 1 LipiCl la Lt CLlicliL < = = J =


the experiment or the scientist can Zc on to the next step and
request the next computation in turn. On the 704 this would
reguire the exclusive use of the machine, though only a fraction
of the 704 speed would be used; obviously again, time-sharing
techniques are needed,

These, and many other Programs now in progress, such as
the character-recognition Studies mnt “. + the research
on ecenomic forecasting end on operational behavior using large-
scale simulation techniques, should be of particular interest to
1Bii, for they have direct besring on the progress of computer
design and utilization, They represent the sort of cooperative
research between experts in different fields which KIT does so
effectively, and they involve the combination of research and
education for which LIT is pre=eminent. This work deserves
Support by IB, in addition to the educational activities which
are already being ST the present contribution of the 704.
They can most effectively, y vhe installation of a 7090, replacing
the 704, in the near future; LIT will then be able to provide
the staff and ancillary equipment to push ahead with dispatch.
Because of the "inter-connectedness" of much of this research,
it con best be carried out (perhaps it can only be carried out)

 

in the atmosphere of mutual cooperation amd exchange of infor-
nation provided by the Computation Cater,

a

only a part of the resea

 

| > Outlook for the Futuze = The activities mentioned above are my

  
  

=e : ei : ANF
a6 IIT and a% the associated instit- LL
3 AT dad
vhe Computation av E

H
D
2
ci
OO
or
6
oO “9
=
Wp
=
0
C2
td
3
[eee
Ci
f=
Mh
a
C
=i

utions, which desi

| Center, Obviously no machine, even of the capacity of p retch, fad
Growing demands tonlionn Howe IM A

© need not, and pPrcbably should

all the demands. A much more realistic task would

Jit

3

Be Go concentrate on the eélucational vasks, which will be supple
a

- — aa - - I = a 15 : — ~ 2 a - J oe ~~ > <
colleges and which, for the HIT class needs can be improved in
af 4 1 CLT br TIM wely ard me ont Yak 1a NT th = ‘3 S Tecan ama 73
SlillCl CACY 2s.) LLOACWSO AY Liles UE Clique we OUI CNRESIS I'es CALC ana on
-— > | -— - -— -_— 3 wl - 1 - -— NN * y r -
LOSE aspects of research which advance the GesSlign, programain
- tu -


other new directions,

which involve machine use (meteorolosy,
nuclear reactor design and the like) should be supported by the
Center by grants of some time only vhile they are in the formative
stage, before they have been shown to be so obviously practical
thet they can ask for financial support,for further computation,
in their own rishi. By the time they have developed their pro-
grams and thelr special techniques of machine use, and are ready
to,exploit these methods by long "production runs", they should be
in a posivion to obtain financing to run these computations on
one of the several other similar machines which are or will be
in operation in the vicinity.

ven with this sort of limitation on the use of the Center
facilities, the demands on the Center will grow. But the growth,
if thus linited, will, we believe, be a manageable one, in keeping
with what could be impl@mented by the cooperative effort of IBN
and MIT. A 7090 within the year would not delay most of the work
outlined above too seriously. And, as outlined below, it would
be able to handle them for several years, while plans are made
for the next step. On the other hand, if a 7090 cannot be provided
soon, several of the projects mentioned above will have %o termine
ate or else will have to use other machines, which would inev-
itably mean the dissipation of the Center's usefulness in
coordinating this sort of research.

It is not intended that the Center should have & monopoly
of all computing around MIT; this would be unrealistic and, as
indicated above, impossible. But it must play an active role in
supporting and instigating research into new applications if it
is to continue to be the focus of new ideas and of exciting

iwity which will attract, train and inspire the Ee seneration

Proposal = It is proposed that some Time mEEU summer or fall
a 7090 be subst visubed for the present 704, Uetails of the specific
equipnent to be included are already under discussion with IRI

of machine experts.

0
ci
0)
I
o
a,

ould be included, and

LA Le Nv Pe nm Be oy BAN wep 1 a TNT A OQ ae sn A al
n the mean time the Center staff will be prepading pilot models

Gh didi


hes Saal ma yam By cat J ry Bed na of 3 em frre 2
of the sSubsiavion, time~sharing cohsole

and the related Program
ricavions 80 Ghat the time-sharing aspects of

>

the research can
is inst allied.
Ihe total load on the 7090, the work of the cooperating
¢ and the machinz-use
research discussed above, would initially use more than one shift
d : use more than Ywo shifts
for the first year, Consequently it would be possible for IRS,

auring the rirst ycar of operation, to uiilize the third s if: in

a manner similar to what was done on the 704 during its Mrst year

' a 4 - -
AT ATA = AT It - a
( cA UVLO BB 15 Kk

operation. It is likely that this IEM usage would taper off,

as it did with the 704, so that rogram outlined above

ezpsnts, it could & £ts (plus Saturdays);

» Lhe I? clagi=-

zr taking up to an sy and the new
i

in addition to the

S 9
> - 3 - xr ln \ dale 4 NC HN r “3 -
management and coordination with other colleges; IB would supply
anag |

wwintenance, amortization orf bul 1ding space, support of the research
“1 . ¥ L . i [

assistantship nrogram and reimbursemen 1 of IT's expenses in the

Ca ded hd wen be Ps ce td LE lap :. v-

de 2 4

cooperative program, as it does at present with the 704, 5)
J WW MM Na he Sr we V \ jo 5 A i


