|

-~

 

 

 

— To: Professor P. M. Morse

From: Herbert Teager

Sub ject: Integration of Remote Console - Time Shared 7090 System
Operation into M. I. T's Educational Facllities

1. Background:

As part of our general preparation for the TO090 system, we
have been actively exploring the use of time - shared multipro-
gramming; with one or'many input-output devices connected. We
have successfully demonstrated with our flexowriter project that
time - sharing is a feasable method of running and testing pro-
grams . .

As M. I. T. explores more deeply the problems of teaching and
research, computers are cer:cain to have more applieability as a
teaching and research tool, This need will be fulfilled either by
providihg a large number of relatively slow, limited capability com-
puting systems gpread throughout classrooms and departments of the
Insﬁitubéa through time - shared usage of a large, fast, and versa-
tile system such as the 7090, or perhaps via a combination of both.

Based upon available information, the Committee assigned to
study this problem; namely, F. J. Corbato, J. McCarthy, and H. M.
Teager, recommend quite strongly that the possibility of a remote-
Console time shared TO90 system be broached with apgcopriate aathoritiss at &
early date, as 2n area deserving support improvement of teaching
facilitiesaand techniques.

2, Specifications for the Proposed System:

At present, we are distinctly handicapped with respect o a
detalled understanding of the 7090 lo ic and construction.® Lack-
ing such'information, it is extremely difficult to express feasa-
pility in terms of cost, or any other terms other than "We know how
to do it and we feel it will be a better solution than a multitude
of small machines'.

Basically, She system would be comprised of a T090, several
dise files, 5 - 10 remote inquiry stations similar ©o the 7070
system stations (electric typewriters and some push buttons) , and
sufficient channels and electronic hardware to make the system work.
gome of the remote Lecture Hell stations would, in addition, be
equipped with gself maintaining scope - displays and light pens.

# This is a pollcy matter that we feel should be broached at a high
1evel with [BM in aecuring their cooperation.