u

‘ THE SUPPORT OF MACHINE- PROGRAMMING STAFF
FOR THE UTILIZATION OF
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS IN SOCIAL SCIENCE

ThaliaQJJJ§¥_8!1§_I§§_P9§:BM£ML§§

The high-speed computing facility, to be installed by
IBM at the new Computation Center at MIT will be the largest and
most flexible facility in this country to be devoted exclusively
to unclassified research and education. IBM will contribute more
than a .fifth of a million a year in its support for maintenance
and operation. What is'needed, in addition, to make this an out-
standing center for the investigation of digital computer
potentialities in all branches or scientific research, is about
3100, 000 a year for the support of a research staff, which can
work with scientists in various fields to develop new and more
effective techniques of machine utilization.

Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in New
England to participate in the use of the machines, and IBM has set
up funds for Assistantshipsto enable graduate students, at MIT
and at the participating colleges, to spend time at the Center
learning to use the equipment. This Center and these arrangements
represent potentialities for new developments in social and
physical science of great and unexplored importance.

There will be no charge for machine time made to students
or faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the
routine aspects of operation will be taken care of by IBM, so that
those who know how to use such equipment can use it, without cost,
up to the fourteen hours a day during which the machine will be
available at -first. A number of problems in economies are going
to be put on the mac.hine by Professor Solow of MIT and by Professor
Orcutt of Harvard and, as other research workers in the social

sciences learn how to us e the equipment, other problems will be
brought to the Center.

The Importance of Team Pesearon

 

 

 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 

But an instrumer ty, by itself, cannot produce new
research. To make the imp nt advances which are possible with
a computer of the speed at exibility of this, one needs a team
of research people, some 0 on know the machine and some of whom
know the research field e:{citlng new possibilities beyond
the stage of a “glee ‘ we need in addition to the
machine, a staff of chine use. readv to team up v;vith
those scientists who machine can help them but are not
sure how, so that, be they can trazlsla3e the 'gleam in
the eye" into net and esultsh