A Concordance to the Works of John Calvin

One of the glories of classical scholarship is an impressive
array of concordances to ancient Greek and Latin writers, For
the Scriptures, too, and also for thé corpus of Roman law there
are comparably exhaustive indices to the texts. With such tools,

a wide range of questions can be answered with comparative ease.

However, when the scholar moves into Christian literature no such
faithful servants stand at his elbow. How often, for example, have
historians of Christian thought wished that a complete concordance
existed for the works of Augustine!

Concordances of classical and biblical authors were compiled
with enormous and tedious labor by dedicated researchers and
their assistants, It would be hard in our day to find such persons
to work thus selflessly for hours and years. Yet we have at hand
an instrument of truly amazing capabilities, the electronic com-=-
puter, to carry out research of such fundamental and necessary
character,

Some limited application of the computer has been made in
religious thought. Using a computer, John W. Ellison prepared a
Cancordance to the Revised Standard Version of the Bible. An
Aquinas Concordance is under preparation. Computer technique
is being applied to problems in Bible translation. Yet efforts such
as these have barely scratched the surface of the vast possibilities
of the computer in theological investigation.

The need for such tools is apparent to anyone who has devoted
years to textual and source study and to translation of religious
works from one language to another. The translator of Calvin's
Institutes of the Christian Religion for the Library of Christian
Classics found it necessary to construct by hand a select word-
list in order to insure accuracy and consistency of rendering.

But such lexicographic efforts were minimal in character and only
ancillary to the prime tasks of editing and translating. It was out

of this long and laborious experience that the thought came to pro-
pose a full concordance to the Institutes, to be followed by concor-
dances to Calvin's other works. That these efforts could lead to a
much wider field of concordance activity is quite obvious,