September 17, 1956
Memo to: I.B.M. Research Assistants snd Associates

Discussions with the assistants and associates attending
the 704 programming course indicate that there is some uncertainty
concerning the duties and opportunities involved in the assistant-
ship program you have now joined. With assistance from Professor
Hildebrand of the M.I.T. Mathematics Department, I will be your
advisor and supervisor at the Computation Center; at your respec-
tive schools your institutional representative will perform a
similar role. While we can help you get started, and can suggest
some things to be done, it will be up to you to make the most of
the opportunities offered by the Computation Center.

The approximate time which you will be expected to spend
on the program is at the rate of 36 hours per week for a full-time
assistantship. Although fluctuations are reasonable, some s8chedule
of systematic use of your time should be maintained. In particu-
lar, some of your time should be spent at the Computation Center.
Those off-campus should spend a complete day every few weeks rather
than waste time with excessilve traveling. Initlally this time at
the Center will be mainly for guidance; ultimately you will have
to ad just these visits to match the work you will be doing at the
Center. A

The purpose of the I.B.M. assistantship program is to
give the opportunity of learning modern computing techniques in
both a broad and detailed sense. In other words, you should
attempt to acquire a general background in digital computers and
perspective of the problems which lend themselves to computation.
In particular this should range from a knowledge of numerical
analysis and the theory of programming to an ability to code in
detail explicit problems for the 704 computer. In short, the
objective 18 to become a computer expert and thus complement your
already chosen professional specialty. A long-range objective is
to spread and encourage interest in digital computers in yocur re-
spective schools and departments. As a short-range obJective,
though, you should be concerned with exploring past and future
computer applications within your professional speclalty. This
should lead to research projects of your own which should have the
approval of your thesis advisor and/or department and of your
institutional representative. Furthermore, it should be clear that
you are expected to give freely of advice and discussion to persons
at your college interested in computing; you are not expecfed to
become an errand boy for your respective schools or department
although your institutional representative may assign you various
service projects. '

The detalled duties of the ascistantship program may be
summarized in the following list: