e — .

-3 —— :
g - -
A
25 gy
v £ _"
. >
,l'/
L.
s >
l‘

PROPOSAL. FOR EXTENSION OF NSF GRANT No. NSFG2940

to June 30, 1958

 

Proposal

Although our IEM 704 is now delivered and is in storage at
MIT, delay in completion of the building to house it has delayed
commencenent of the project financed by NSP grant NSF G2940. As
a result, it is estimated that only about $8,000 will have been
spent by June 30, 1957, Staff members, which were to have been
transferred to this project, have been continued on the Whirlwind
project until the change-over, and most of them will not be trans-
ferred until summer. It is therefore proposed that the project be
continued until June 30, 1958, with an additicnal grant of only
$13,000, so that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to
June 1958, we can operate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecast. Estimated details of budget
are appended, together with excerpts from the original propeosal.

Progress to Date

Although the NSF funds have not been used to any extent, work
on the first aspects of the proposed research has gone forward
as rapidly as is possible without the 704 being in running condi-
tion. A complete utility and a post-mortem program have been
developed, and tested ocut on borrowed 7O4 time, a much more
flexible assembly program than at present avallable has been
begun, ready for active ceding when our 704 is in operation.
Discussions have been begun with a view to investigating the
incorporation of a flexible output equipment utilizing the
photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Many programs
of importance in physics and engineering have been, or are being
translated from Whirlwind language to TO4 language, such as the
work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. C. Slater
and the large-shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossi. The
meteorology group under Prof. Charney, recently moved here {rom
Princeton where their work was initiated by Von Neumann, 1s
planning to use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
require the advice and help of cur staff to program thelr various
calculations. We will be aesisting the Harvard Observatory staff
in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the IGY satellite "shoots". Dr. S. Ulam of Los Alamos, who has
been a Visiting Fellow to the Center this year, has been asslsting
us develop "Monte Carle” techniques. Prof. John MeCarthy of the
Dartmouth Mathematics Department (one of the New England colleges
participating in our program) will be here next year and will be
interested in developing machine logle and in further investiga-
tions of the behavior of "automata'" by means of simulation pro-
grams. The staff of the MIT library is interested in exploring
the pessibilities of storing and recovering informatioen by
machine methods and a project in the MIT Language Department on
machine translation, supported by the Rockefeller Foundation,
expects to use our equipment to test out thelr ideas. Other
groups, at the 23 participating colleges, are planning further
work.