a SNA

Name 2nd Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation
and Utilization--Investigation into

the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investlgation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis

and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view,

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment durlng the fall of
1059 to determine whether further support is advisable.

 

Proposed Research; Background Informefion: We are organizing what
should be one of the most Truitful centers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, par®
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT 1s contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of thelr institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with sScme of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facllitles, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help ccordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine

a _-


De

operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicabllity of computers in the physical
and social sciences and in engineering.

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the
participating colleges would Join 1t for a semester or a year, on
leave from thelr institution, to work full-time at the Center.

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. Ve believe that a contribution of
about 100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the re-
search carried on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the partlcipating colleges. Ve list later In this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects wlll develop naturally from these and
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center.

The project would not start at full strength. The 704 will
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract untlil December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. Ve estimate that a total budget of $60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, $90,000 for 1957-58 and g100,000
for 1058-59. Details are glven later in this proposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the program should be re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial support
frcam both agencies, an 2aual share from each. We believe the work
can be divided so that reparate contracts can be written. Some of
the proposed tasks would be different, though some of the broader

_.,

Yields of investig: GCicu would cverlsp. We would hope that we could


3.

put out a combined progress report. In some published papers,
credit could be given to one organization alone; in others, credit.
would go to both. EBookkeeplng would be somewhat more complicated,
but since most of the expense would be for salaries, little for
permanent equipment, this could be done. It probably would be
necessary to have the usual government overhead for both contracts.
The proposed budget asked of each agency for 1956-57 1s
given below. The corresponding amounts for the following two years
would be g45,000 for 1957-58 and g50,000 for 1958-59, as indicated
above, : rE. :

proposed Research; Possible Initial Directions of Investigation:

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input
languages; the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical,
logical or business language. |

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and automatic.
error analysis. - : tk i Ba exes

3, Development of numerical analytic technlques particu-
larly sultable for use by digital computers; such as more. general
expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomials sums for gimulating
standard functions by a common block of instructions bub small
separate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and methods of
automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trlal plus |
Richardson extrapolation or other means, | a

L. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques
for communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of wachine operation, including possible luprove-
ments in input-output equipment. |


6.

<b

Investigation of new techniques and applications of

linear programming, including procedures analogous to the methods
of steepest descent developed by Hestenes and Stiefel for the
solution of linear equations.

To
(2)

(v)

(c)

(d)

Computations of interest in pure mathematics:

Character table of selected characters of the
symmetric group.

Checking congruences of interest in algebraic
number theory.

Further extension of factor tables and prime
number lists past 1012 via the sieve of Erastosthenes,
utilizing, say, Corbaté'’s new factoring program.

Coding of Tarski's decision method for elementary
algebra and geometry. Tarskl has shown that ele-
mentary algebra and geometry can be decided by a
computer. To implement this would be a task of
considerable magnitude, but it would illustrate the
logical capabilities of a computer to a degree not
heretofore done.

8. Techniques for achieving fully automatic computer
operation and logging. These willl be Investigated as an integral
part of the computing system. |


ee

Facllitlies: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TOU
Electronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate

aching rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated by

" The Type 70% EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers avallable today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and 2
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel: Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Associated with

-.:. a, i a EE i IE

the Project ;

Principal Investigator to be Professor Phillip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with

computing problems during his career in theoretical physlcs since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first Bush
differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his
Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publleations Include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound” 1936, "Methods of Operations Research® (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and “Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about a hundred Journal articles, many of which glve re-
sults obtained from machlne computation. For further biographic
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathemetlics Department at MIT
since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1940. He
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers”
(1049), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis” (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who will head the programming research


hm

group in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in
Electrical Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate
work in Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his |
doctor's thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience

in the use of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment
and with Whirlwind I. His salary will be charged to the Project.

~ Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operatlons of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 1946, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1940,
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the
utilization of varilous analogue computing equipment--differential
anzlyzers, etec., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 704. He received
a B.S, degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S, degree in Electrical Engineering {rom MIT
in 1946, and a Sc.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project. et

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center (see Appendix A) will be
available for advice and cooperation. From time to time, if one
of them can supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may
be charged to the Project.

Full-Time Members of the Project
These will include some former wembers of the Whirlwind

programming research group, such as Frank Eelwlg and Sheldon Best,

and others. Some of the best of the IBM research assistants at the

Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate periods, at

full time, after they have finished thelr graduate work and relinquished

their assistantships.’ | ;

vd Ae et —
Coa aia oadVes LS

i
J
oa
d
oi

|
4


~7-
Budget for 1956-1957

 

(ONR ana NSP combined, 1/2 to be charged to each)

Salaries

Fractions of Salaries of Senior Scientists

Principal Investigator (8 per cent of

$12,500)

Other Faculty Members

(1/3 of $9,000 and 1/3 of 37,500)

Salaries of Full-time otaff

oN

Senlor Investigators (at $7,500)
Junior Investigators (at 86,000)
Secretary-Typlst (at $3,000)

Technician (computer, programmer)

Total Salary

Overhead {see note at end of budget)

Permanent Equipment

(desk computers, special input equipment,

3
eel.

Expendable Equipment

Travel

Publication Costs

Total Yearly Budget

(see note on next

g 2,000
5,500

22,500
12,000
3,000
5,000
£50,000
20,000

6,000
1,000
2,000

1,000
#80, 000

DAES
YaES

ER enti imindls mimeo Ml a


-8w

Since the staff will be acquired in 1956, some of them
being transferred from other projects between July and December
1996, expenditures for the first year 1956-1957 will be about
3/4 of the above yearly estimate. $60, 000.

One half of this contributed by ONR $30,000
Requested for year beginning July 1, 1956.

Note on Overhead: The overhead percentage is based on previous
experience, It way differ somewhat from this when charges are
computed,


7
Er
)

e APPENDIX A

=

ERSHIP OF M.I.T. MACHINE COMPUTATION COMMITTEE

sf. Philip M. Morse, Chairman Physics
- 2 TY Cte "1 A

mean Flay rn 0 mon ee vim

- AN ~~ St Ye - a >

~~ ™ - waa
, hel eo eh wes oe —— -—-

Prof. Herman Feshbach Physics
Dr. Jay W. Forrester Electrical Engineering
= Prof’. Francis B. Hildebrand Mathematics 2 z he
Prof. Chia-Chiao Lin

| Mathematics
Prof. James B. Reswick Mechanical Engineering

FN wee

 

PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITIES AND INSTITUTE REPRESENTATIVES

Bates College, Prof. Karl S. Woodcock, Head, Department of Physics
Bennington College, President Frederick Burkhardt

Boston College, Rev. William G. Gulndon, Head, Department of Physics
Boston University, Dean Duncan E. Macdonald, Graduate School

Bowdoin College, Prof. Reinhard IL. Korgen, Dept. of Mathematics

Brandeis University, Prof. David Falkoff, Dept. of Physics

Brown University, Prof. William Prager, Chairman, Physical Sciences Coun,
Dartmouth College, Prof. John McCarthy, Dept. of Math. and Astronomy
Prof, Guy H. Orcutt, Dept. of Economics

Middlebury College, Dean John G, Bowker, Prof. of Mathematics
Northeastern University, Prof. Martin W. Essigmann, Head, Dept. of E.E.
Tufts University, Dean Leonard C. Mead, Graduate School
Univ. of Connecticut, Prof. Ralph J. Kochenberger, Dept. of Engineering
Tn ve of Maine, Dean Ashley S$. Campbell, College of Technology

Yon 4 of Mass Prof. John H. Karlson, Dept. of Elec. Eng.

Prof. Robert B. Davis, Dept. of Mathematics

      

 

JL » - GJ=L —
t, Prof. Ivan R. Hershner, Chairman, Dept. of Math,
Prof. Janet Guernsey, Dept. of Physics
sity, Prof. Hing Tong, Dept. of Mathematics
ge, Prof. Donald E. Richmond, Chairman, Dept. of Math.
>olvtechnic nst., Prof. Richard N. Cobb, Dept. of Math.
rsity, Prof. A. J. J. van Woerkum, Dept. of Astronomy

 

Or & & JA

Vr Hite Buotey Ey? Yop. en


