BERLJOS'FJ’MJI
Profeseor P. M. Morse 1861’
. .‘0 II!

n (a) P c on Auto tic Pro ' nrovenent o Routines
40d etc: This work appears currently to be a lively concern of Professor

Adams' group, is of good quality, and is being followed with considerable inter-
est in computer circles generally. We shall be glad, therefore, to continue its
support at agoraximately its present level (which we understand to be about
five full-time people headed by Dr. Combelic) through 30 June 1956, but
probably not beyond that date.

(b) Tr 2: Adv si es tive china se 3 in Pro

t n Then or Do‘ heir Codin : As soon as possible, and preferably
by the beginning of the second term of the coming academic year, charges to
our contract for this activity should be reduced to a nominal amolmt of, I
should suggest, not more than $10,000 per year. Those of the persons, in the
past urimarﬂy engaged in this latter activity, who are interested and
capable of carrying on original research in numeri 5 might be re-
tained under the contract, provided that most of their time %say two-thirds or
more) is dedicated to such research under whatever faculty supervision is
considered appropriate. Again, we shall be glad to provide this support through

30 June 1956 and shall be interested in discussing its continuation beyond that
date at the appropriate time.

(c) he Rese ch 5 t hi 0 under the Committee on Mac
Commtgtions: For the academic year 1955-1956, the award of these assistantships
should be restricted to candidates who can be expected to produce a publishable
piece of substantial research during their tenure, involving a sizeable effort
of non-routine automatic computation. It does not, however, need to be re-
stricted to advanced graduate students at hand on the MTI‘ campus at the time.
Even so, a substantial reduction in level is anticipated. Continuation of our

support for such an activity beyond 30 June 1956 would again be made to depend
on the way things work out.

According to the figures which formed the basis of our discussions back in May,
the unexpended balance under our contract as of 30 June 1954, was $410,000.00.
Rough estimates indicate that this should be, if anything, more than adequate
to operate the project under the proposed plan through 30 June 1956. In case,
however, an additional, certainly modest, amount should be required for this
purpose, we shall very likely be able to provide it.

The principal factor on which we would want to base the consideration of con—
tinuing our support beyond 30 June 1956 is the establishment of a central core
of faculty members as part of the Digital Computer Laboratory's staff, charged
with developing and conducting a strong academic program. Any arrangemanlts for
future support would have to wait, therefore, for the plans of such a faculty
core of staff members.

A. MIT F. JOACHIM WEYL, Directo
gﬁﬁgoig‘in Adm’ Mathematical Sciences

Sincerely yours, ‘
Copy to: I - /‘7'*"’4“‘—~ Aéz
vision