— The Application of Digital Computers
fo Soclal and Operational Problems;

Opportunities and Needs

Environment and New Facilities - M.I.T. has long been in the fore-
front in the development of computing equipment and in developing
‘ways whereby this equipment can help solve problems in a wide
variety of fields. In the mid-30's Vannevar Bush bullt here the
first differential analyzer and several faculty members, in various
departments, used it to solve problems in engineering, mathematics,
and physics, which could not otherwise be solved. In the past

four years YWhirlwind I, one of the first truly high-speed digital .
computers to get into operation, has been made available for more
than 1/3 of its time for the solution of general scientific prob-
lems. Problems from many fields, sponsored by members of all the
different departments at the Institute, have been put on the
machine. The programming research staff of Whirlwind has gained
experience in adapting the computer to this varlety of problems

and the faculty at the Institute has begun to learn, by actual
doing, the ways in which the computer can help them solve their
problems.,

Beginning in 1957, the computing faclillities at M.I.T.
will be enlarged and reorganized into a Computation Center, to be
devoted entirely to unclassified scientific research and education.
I.B.M. is donating one of its new 704 computers with double the
usual storage units and wilth appropriate auxiliary equlipment, and
wlll provide for the maintenance of the equipment; the Center will
be housed in the new K. T. Compton Laboratory Bulldlng according
to agreement with I.B.M., the equipment will be used ten hours a
day (on the "midnight shift") by I.B.M., will be avallable up to
seven hours a day to faculty members from other colleges In New
England and the remainder of the time (seven plus hours) will be
available for use by students and staff of M.I.T. for basic re-
search. The programming research staff, at present working with
Whirlwind, will be tranzferred to the Center, to serve as a nucleus
for planning machine use and for developing new technlgues of
machine application.

Nature of the Research - Exploitation to the full of the potentl-
allties of a new piece of equipment can most effectively be accom-
plished by an advance on two fronts: the sclving of specific problems
and the development of techniques. In the case of computing machines,
research workers in many fields should learn machine programming
techniques and then proceed to use the machine to help them solve
their own problems. In many cases they can develop the programs

they will need for their waork, but in some cruclal cases they will
need the help of those persons interested primarlly in machlne
operation, who are interested more in developing machine technlques
than in solving individual problems.

This division of labor has been necessary in many other
sclentific advances. The recent{ great progress in nuclear physlics