PROPOSAL FOR EXTENSION OF NSF GRANT No. NSF02_ﬂQ
to June 30 1958
“—3....

MIT, delay in completion of the building to house it has delayed
comencement of} the project financed by NSF grant NSF 02940. As
a result, it is estimated that only about $8,000 will have been
spent by June 30, 1957. Staff members, Ilhich were to have been
transferred to this project, have been continued on the Whirlwind
proJect until the change—over, and most of them will not be trans-
ferred until summer. It is therefore proposed that the project be
continued, until June 30, 1958, with an additional grant of only
$13,000, so that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to
June 1958. we oanoperate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecast. Estimated details of budget
are appended, together with eXcerpts from the original proposal.

Progress to Date

 

 

developed, and tested out on borrowed 701% time, a much more
flexible assembly program than at present available has been
begun, ready for active coding when our 7014 is in operation.
Discussions have been begun with a view to investigating the
incorporation of a flexible output equipment utilizing the
photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Many programs

translated from Whirlwind language to 704 language, such as the
work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. c. Slater
and the large-shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossio The
meteorology group under Prof. Chamey, recently moved here from
Princeton where their work was initiated by Von Neumann, is
planning to use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
require the advice and help of our staff to program their various
calculations. We will be assisting the Harvard Observatory staff
in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the 10'! satellite "shoots". Dr. s. Ulam of Los Alamos, who has
been a Visiting Fellow to the Center this year, has been assisting
us develop "Monte Carlo" techniques. Prof. John McCarthy of the

 

 

interested in developing machine logic and in further investiga-
tions of the behavior of "automate" by means of simulation pro-

machine methods and a project in the MIT Language Department on
machine translation, supported by the Rockefeller Foundation,
expects to use our equipment to test out their ideas. Other

groups, at the 23 participating colleges, are planning further
work.

¥