N ¢ Room 20C-206

August 9, 1955

Professor G. S. Brown
Room 4-202
M. XI. P.

Dear Dr. Brown:

The Digital Computer Laboratory has been asked
to set up a DIC contract between it and the Group 61 at =3
the Lincoln Laboratory. I am enclosing the following
material which is pertinent to this contract negotiation:

1) Subject contract for a program and mathe-
matical research for Lincoln Laboratory
to DIC Project 6345,

2) Memorandum from C. W. Farr, Group 61,
confirming request outlined in item 1.

3) Research proposal describing the proposed
contract.

This proposal has been discussed with Messrs. Forrester,
Everett, Wiesner, etc. at the Lincoln Laboratory, and it

is at their request that we have agreed to provide the
services of the staff of the Digital Computer Group -
(DIC 6345) during the fiscal pedod beginning July 1, 1955 -
June 30, 1956. Item No. 1 provides a technical description
of the work which is to be performed under this contract
with specific areas clearly outlined as well as a statement
of the qualifications of the Digital Compiuter Laboratory
group. The amount of the contract has been set for $35,000,
which 1s to cover the cost of a total of 4 man years' effort
during this period, (There is to be no machine charge for
the Whirlwind Computer.)

Item No. 2 serves as a confirmation of the ap-
proval of the Lincoln Laboratory to have this work done.

This proposal has been discussed with Prof. Morse
on July 6th and it has his approval. Unfortunately,
Prof. Morse is away on vacation for a month and is therefore
not available to add his signature to the proposal.


Prof. G. S. Brown page 2 August 9, 1955

I have considered the qualifications of this
proposal in light of existing academic rules regarding
the establishment of a DIC contract, and I feel that
the project will contribute to our educational and research
program. As a matter of fact, it 1s not unreasonable to
expect that several theses may originate as a result of
this work. (I am currently supervising a programming
thesis which is very definitely of this character.) As
you know, I have been asked to take over Mr, Porter's
assignment in the Digital Computer Laboratory, and in
this assignment I will be available to supervise this
effort. Finally, The existing space and facilities in i»
the Barta Building are available and adequate for the
conduct of this research.

I hope the above comments have covered all
pertinent items required for this contract negotiation.
However, if I can be of any further assistance, please
do not hesitate to call me.

Sincerely yours,

F. M. Verzuh
Director
v:T

cc: VP. M, Morse
J. W. Forrester
F. L. Foster

Enclosures (3) 3


