Minutes of the Third Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

December 6, 1950

ggggggs Ersssnt: G. S. Brown H. Feshbach ‘J. W. Forrester
Z. Kopal, 0: Lin, P. M. horse and E. Reissner

Professor ﬁeissner reported on the procedure for doctor's
candidates in the Department of Mathematics. A written quali—
fying examination, similar to that in Physics, is given, usual—
ly at the end of the first year. This is based on the material
in five undergraduate and beginning graduate courses: Algebra,
Analysis, Geometry, and two terms of Complex Variables. The
Committee felt that little modification of this preliminary ex-
amination would.be needed for men wishing to obtain a degree
from the Mathematics Department in Numerical Analysis. Perhaps
a few less questions could be asked in Complex Variables and
Geometry, and a few questions could be added on Numerical
analysis, or Machine Methods or on Physics, but that the modi—
fications could be taken up‘wnen a specific example arose.
After some discussion, it appeared probable to the Committee
that, for the time, most graduate students coming in to the
field of Numerical Analysis would be fairly well grounded in
the undergraduate subjects of either the Mathematics course or
the Electrical Engineering course, and that therefore most of
the students which this Committee might help supervise could be
handled by suitable minor modifications of either the Electrical
Engineering or Mathematics qualifying examination. Sooner or
later, of course, as the Committee became better known, cases
would arise which would not fit these two alternatives. It was

felt, however, that such problems were best treated as they
came up.

Two specific cases of men in the Mathematics Department
were discussed: Helwig and Porter. They have taken the neces-
sary undergraduate courses in Mathematics, but they have not
yet taken their qualifying written exam. It is felt, however,
that there is no particular problem in their taking the regular
Mathematics exam, and that the Committee can first help in
these cases in helping supervise their thesis research.

At this time, Professor Gordon Brown came to the meeting
and the discussion turned to consideration of the specific
cases of graduate students in the Electrical Engineering Depart-
ment. The following tentative decisions and questions were
raised: