Srvisory and faculty staff, the other colleges have also con-
’*3Ht°d faculty time. Machine time is free, though the user must
oﬂcnare his own coded program. To date faculty and students fLfrom

27 colleges and universities have used the facilities and 150 problems
are being or have been run, representing several dozen different
scientific, engineering and academic f£ields., Details of the program are
are given in the appended Progress Report.

Here 1s a combination ideally'suited for the prosecution of
research directed toward reducing the' "mismateh™ between the machine
and the occasional user, All that is needed to start a vigorous
program are additional funds to augment the staff, which are at present
too busy helping individual users to have time to work out the ilmpraoved
technigues suggested by their present work. No money is needed for
machine rental or maintenancey; this is already supplied by IBM. Nor
is money needed for machine operators or card-punch operators. The
additional funds can be used entirely in supporting the additional
staff needed to intensify the research on machine behavior and to work
out the improved techniques for machine use arising therefrom; and in
purchasing or constructing the special input-output eguipment which
will increase the machinels flexibility.

This special support need not be continued indefinitely. An
intensive program for three to five years should solve many of the
outstanding problems and enable the Center to drop back to its present
level of expenditure, but with a greatly enhanced utility to the
academic fraternity 1n New England because of the results of the
program. The results of the work will be immediately available to
the several hundred other TO4 installations and, with little additional

modification, to the users of other makes of digital computers.
Present makes of digital computers have many more properties in common
than differences, and what is learned on one machine can be carried
over to the others without much.modification,

Development of UtL1lity Programs - In addition to assisting
individual users in putting their problem on the machine, the Center
staff have the important task of making the machine easier to use by
all users., It always takes time, the experience of many users, to
reveal all the capabilities of any piece of machinery; this is
particularly true of high-speed computers. Because of their speed
and complexity it may take a dozen years or more before even the full
capabilities of our present machines are known, and by that time
macaines of still more speed and complexity'will be bullt. A computer
the size of the TO4 has an order of complexity such that its -
desxgners literally are not aware of all of its capabilities. Con-
sequently it is important that research into these capabllities be
carried ong such research, revealing easier ways of obtaining results
and new methods of operationg may at times go farther in increasing
machine serviceabllity for the general user than can the providing of
a new machine with increased speed or capaclty.