Dr. A. P. Ershov
Computation Center
Academy of Seiences
Moscow

B. 5 5 R.

Dear Dr. Srehav: |

I am writing to invite you to give a series of ten lectures on your work and that
of your colleagues in the Soviet Union in the areas of rutomatic programming from
the point of view of the "programming programa" for Strela and BESM and the
theoretical work going on in this area, that has, for example, been published in
the Problemy Kibernetiki, at the University of North Caraliaz from vaguat 17-28,
You TUTE TEFMIFa TH S1Rer Bussian or (preferably for us) Singlish.

l am also inviting Professor Kaantorovich of the vaiversity of Leningrad to give
a similar series of lectures on linear programming, fuactional analysis, and
automatic programming of the "Prorab" type,

You will be paid the standard honorarium for vour lectures ($1,000), plus money

y
for expanses in the United States (3200), for a total of 81,200. Out of this vou
will bave to pay U. 8. incomes taxes which will amount to less than $100. You
would be expecied lo furnish your own transportation betwaen the UJ. 3. 3. RB.
and New York and return.

Your visit will be zo timed that you will be able to attend with me and Professor
Perlis of Carnegie Tech the National issocistion for Computing Machinery meeting
to be held in Cambridge, Massachusetts on eptember 1, 2, and 3. 4s you note,
since last fall I have left na Arbor to become Director of our nsw Center here.

1 am sending copies of this letter and the invitation to Profe sant Kantorovich also
to Academicians Dorodunitsin and Lebedev. If it should happen that you and they
would be interested in attendance of three or four persons rather than just you and
Professor Kantorovich, I would be pleased to he ay further from you and them,

The University of North Carolina will have instzlled on its campus at the time of
this conference 1 copy of the Univac 1105 computer now being used by the Bureau
of Census in the processing of the 1960 J S. Census. There is also now present
s Royal McBee LGP-30 Librascope computer on the campus.


Dr. A. P. Ershov |
Page Two April 13, 1959

We would hope to make plaas for you te talk to other American computer
mathematicians not enly at Chapel Hill and Cambridge, but also along your
itinerary from New York to Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill to Cambridge, Massachusetts,
and Cambridge back to New York.

A8 you will see from the enclosed announcement of the Conference, we have
invited other computer scientists from Germany, France, Switzerliad, and in
addition, Great Britain, to lecture. We feel that the meeting and the people
attending should be of interest to you and your collesgues., The leciures, of
fourse, are Wo come under the agreement on exchange of persons between the
United States ond the Soviet Union; and it would be expected that a like number
of U. 8, computer scieatists would be invited to pay a similar visit to the Soviet
Union, perhaps to give a similar series of lectures.

I would appreciate your conferring with academicians Lebedev and Dorodnitsin
and Professor Kantorovich about this possible trip, and would appreciate hearing
irona you as soon as possible. I look forward personally to meeting you again.
Please don't hesitate to reply in Russian.

Sincerely yours,

Ww). Con 1)

  

ha W, Carr, HI, Director
Research Computation Center

ce: Professor i. J. Perlis, Carnegie Tech |
Professor Philip Morse, M.1.T. Computer
Laboratory, Cambridge, Massachusetts
Dr. W. M, Whyburn, Vice President,
University of North Carolina
Lcademician A, A. Dorodnitsin
Academician 3. A. Lebedev

7


