it WP R g

 

 

 

Extension of NSF G2940 Y Page 6

Enclosure B, Continued

    

card-punching, testing and running of thelr problems. We

estimate $50,000 a year can come from payments from other

ro. s for the programming service described, leaving about
year to be obtained from other sources.

     
  

 

 

  

The Rockefeller Foundation has granted the Computation
Center about $100,000 for three years, Beginning July 1, 1957,

r the support of a staff to investigate applications of

gital computers in the soclal sciences. Thus only about

35,000 a year 1s needed to complete the support of the Center
staff, enough to support that part of the staff concentrating on
the physical science aspects of the aetivity. In order to get
our plans well under way, thls grant should be continued for
about three years (as with the Rockefeller grant), after which

 

  

 

the program should be re-evaluated to determine needs beyond
that date.

 

1. Investigatlion of Structure and Syntax of input languages;
the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical, logical or
business language. ;

  

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebralic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and auto-
matic error analysis.

5. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suiltable for use by digital computers; such as more
general expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomial sums for
slmulating standard functions by a common block of instructions
but small sep2rate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and
methods of automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial
plus Richardson extrapolation or other means.

4. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems. '

5. Extension and/or imppovement of present techniques for
communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, inecluding possible
improvements in input-output equipment.

6. Experimental analysis and control using data trans-
mitted directly between computer and experiment.

7. Investigation of microgrogramming and other methods for
increasing the flexibility of computer design. The posbibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a large-scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.

» = e “TT | . ’ T 7 E
A3 T i La p AL LI Y =it i A A TS ITMAT:
, y A OL3 ; 3 2111 0 InilimsOAal I0AGE
REES b oY -t SR ; ; : * A i ®
L = . e L R = - ' -,
) e - L 2 . g - 258 iidieaia ey M— S " g — e b .

 

T T o s P S SRR S e -

ST e

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B