TC: Participants in the American Sociological DATE: May 3, 1957
Society's Session on "Roles played by
Sociologists and Anthropologists in COper-
ations Research"” (Joint Session with the
American Anthropological Society).

 

FROM: Richard H. Williams, National Institute
of Mental Health, Co-chairman

Suggested Guidelines for the Session

The ASS-AAS Jointly sponsored session on operations research will be
held August 27, 1:30 to 3:30 P.M., in the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D.C.

 
   
     
  
       
 
    
 
    
 
 
       
      
      
       
   
  
      
       
      
    
 
 
 
 
     
    

Some General Assumptions and Plans

   

The time allowed for preparation for this session is shoxt. The con-
cept "operations research" is relatively unfamiliar to all but a few seg-
ments of the sociological and anthropological professions. There is room
for differences in conceptualization. There are probably still more dif-
ferences of opinion about the roles which sociologists, anthropologists,

and closely related social scientists can, do or "should" play in operations
research.

  

Therefore, it is thought that this session should concentrate on
definitions of the field, and definitions of roles within the field. Ap-
proximately six short (ten-minute to fifteen-minute maximum) papers are
planned. They should not be "data papers," although illustrative material
is always in order. Participants have been sought who have had a variety of
experiences, all relating to the application of social science to various
kinds of "operations" (industrial, military, etc.).

 

Q.§E§§§3ted Orientatigg

   

My own orientation to the problem, and the position I shall take in
my brief paper, has been expressed in Williams, Richard Hays, (ed.) Human

Factors in ﬁilﬁ‘ng Qpeva'ﬂmnc Chapter 2, ”The Theory of AOLTMQ in QPF;:

et s e 3
ations Research and in Social Sciences." It may be briefly summarized as
follows:

 

  
  

(Cperatione research is research intended to reduce areas of uncertainty
in decisions concerning organized courses of action. Action is behavior ;
which is oriented toward the realization of ends, or goals. The ends of
organized courses of action may be called "missions."

  

        
      
      
  

S & 5 < = e o o4 = vl £ - 3 - v~ } 3 \
Xt 18 usef ul LO ‘dl st inguil sh h._ e ma ix 2 SyS8 i “’mu Or 8UD=- f&",:‘,f‘r'fl':\;@,\nﬁ, in
organized courses of action: al\ the technological system (a@ti@n is