MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
DIC 55<5 DIVISION OF INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASS.

April 11, 1955

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Memorandum to: D.I.C. Project Supervisors
From: F. L. Foster

Subject: D.I.C. Staff Salary Review - July 1955

A salary review for D.I.C. Staff Members effective July 1, 1955
has been approved by the M.I.T. Administration, and tions for
appropriate increases are hersby requested. A merit increase budget has Gen
been approved, which when prorated for new hires, should represent approxi-
—p mately a $25/mo. increase on the average D.I.C. Staff salary. However,
i$ is expected thai your recommendations will reflect application of the
actual merit increase on an individual basis giving due consideration to
such items as age, training and experience, and relatlve contribution to
the project.

Inasmuch as the starting rate schedule for D.I.C. Staff was
modified during February 1955, an ad fustment increase also has been amthor- b
jged to bring salaries of praesent more nearly in line with new hires
being made at the new rates. In your consideration of adjustment increases,
you should be guided by the following: for staff O to li years beyond the
Bachelor's Degree, maximum adjustment $25 per month; ls to 7 years beyond
Bachelor's, maximum adjustment $20 per months 7 to 10 years, $15 per month
and 10 to 13 years, $10 per month.

Promotion increase recommendations should be separated from
merit and adjustment.

Tt is not expected that recommendations will be made for staff
hired since March lst unless an adjustment appears to be in order. Such
cases should be covered by a separate memorandum.

Tt is planned to divide the D.I.C. Staff Members into three
groups as of July 1, 1955 in accordance with the policy statement issued by
Vice-President Cochrane on February 17, 1955. To refresh your memory, those
members of the research group will receive appointments as Research Staff -
D.I.C., members of the administrative group will receive appointments as |

Admind strative Staff = D.I.CJ, while members of the group providing

essentially specialized services will continue to be appointed as D.I.Co
Staff Members. As noted in the policy statement, a limited number of
appointments for periods extending beyond five years of employment will be

considered for outstanding Research Staff and key Administrative Staff.

/

You are requested to submit a copy of the attached form for each «
D.1.C. Staff Member presently employed on your projects. This form allows
you to make recommendations for salary increases and types of appointments.

APR 1 2 1999


DIC 55-5 =2= April 11, 1955

The importance of providing complete substantiation for your recommen-
dations must be emphasized because without it approval of your recommen-
dations may be considerably delayed. We hope to have notices of appoint-
ity and salary increases in the hands of the staff well before July 1,
1 0 ee —————————

In the case of recommendations for the special appointments
for outstanding Research Staff and key Administrative Staff, please sub-
mit a separate recommendation sheet for each person so recommended. This
sheet should indicate (1) the title to be carried, (2) for research staff-
recommended period of appointment, up to three years, (3) duties and
responsibilities of the staff member, (L) experience, qualifications, con=-
tributions in professional field or to laboratory or project, (5) importance
to continued operation of laboratory or project and (6) any other pertinent
information. Such recommendations should be signed by the project super-
visor and cerry the written approval of the department head or academic
administrative officer to whom the laboratory reports. Recommendations for
the term research staff sppointmsnts will be submitted by this office to
the Committee on Sponsored Research for consideration and action while
recommendations for special administrative staff appointments will be acted
upon by the Salary Review Committee.

Your cooperation in carrying out this review as promptly as
possible is requested. The deadline date is May 16, 1955 but earlier re-
turns will be greatly appreciated.


