STABLE LATTICES

HARVEY COHN

1, Introduction. The . consideration of relative extreme to corres 0nd
to the absolute extremum which is the critical lattice has been going on for Isjome
time- As far back as 1873, Korkine and Zolotareff [6] Worked with the ellipsoid
in hyperspace (i.e., with quadratic forms), and later Minkowski [8] worked
with a general convex body in two or three dimensions. They showed how to ﬁnd
critical lattices by selection from among a ﬁnite number of relative extrema.
They were aided by the long»recognized premise that only a ﬁnite number of
lattice points can enter into consideration [1] when one deals with l
“admissible to convex bodies."

In the realm of the more general star body, such as that involved in the
product of homogeneous forms, there is no ﬁniteness principle of equal scope.
Mahler [71 has, however, developed a local property for the critical lattices
established by Davenport [3; 4]. by using ”bounded reducibility.”

We shall develop a similar property which we shall call stability and we shall
extend it to a large class of lattices for star bodies. We shall do this by introducing
:1 formalism of pam‘tively dependent differentials. Then as an illustration, we shall
give a condition for stability of the norm in an algebraic module (a condition
which can be considerably simpliﬁed by the use of units in the Dedekind order [5]).

attices

2. Critical lattices. A lattice Q, in 71-space, is determined by a n X 71
matrix (aw) of (say) positive determinant Haw”, the points of the lattice being
denoted by the vectors X with components

a

(2.1) xi: Zaumj (i=l,2,..i,n)
1:!

corresponding to the integral n-tuple (rm) 2 (m1, r . . . m"). A real continuously

differentiable function, ¢(X), homogeneous of positive degree h in its variables,
is deﬁned in the space The locus l‘l’l = 1 is the boundary of the star body
under consideration. Then we consider the function deﬁned by

(2.2) mm) = ¢<x>/Han3l “"-

For each lattice 33, an inﬁmum of F is deﬁned over (m1). excluding the origin 0‘
Course. Call it M03). Let the values ANY) have a ﬁnite supremum Mar‘Now‘lf a
lattice 9“ exists for which AMY“) = Mm 11‘0" 9" l5 (“Hal a "mall lattice. lhus

 

 

(23' me) = inf mm :7)! (m1) ¢ 0
\

Received December 17, 1951 and in revised form Feliraury 15, 1952, PI'eSEiitcdltoltlISc
American l\'l1\tl\eltlalit‘al Society February 24, IDS]. Research currently Sponsored by tie .. .
Arm? Oﬁ‘ice of Ordnance Reseach.

Zti l