oM R}

2 %

#

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
- Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Reszarch: Research on Digital Computer Operation

6l and Utilization--Investigation into
the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibllities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysls
and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further Support 1is advisable.

Proposed Research: Background Information: We are organizing what
should be one of the mos ruitful cenfers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 7TO4 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxillary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part
of the new Compton Labeoratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physlics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
55 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix & for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
2> institutions have indicated theilr interest in participating snd
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the regearch
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM 1s providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, englneering,
and business, A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Ceater and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, .and in specific applicatlons of wachine