o

Facilities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TO4
Electronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit contalning
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate

?achine rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated by
BM.

" The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and e
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel: Superviso and Administrative Personnel Asscociated with
the Froject

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morae,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact wilth
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first Bush
differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his
Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT asince
1931, with occasional leaves of atsence. His publications include
the booke "Quantum Mechanics® (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound” 1936, "Methods of Operations Research” (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about a hundred journal articles, many of which glve re-
sults obtained from machine cowputation. For further biographic
detalls, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project. z

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teachling and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Hathematics Department at MIT
since 1938, He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT ln 1940, He
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers”
(1949), "Methods of APplied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introductlon
to Numerical Analysis" (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research Jjournals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the ProJject.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who will head the prograuming research