+ Yd Ad.

 

 

ROUTING SHEET

   
  
        

Will recipients please check off their names, make appro-
priatz comments, and send the material on to the next person on

the list. Will the last on the list please return it to me.

Room rhea ext. 857
oes DS ow odd

 

 

To Doom Odum , Comments

aa

CS Cn

r

HOGS 0€ We odlenl Qo!

      

 

a a

 

 

 

EE EE WCU ERT (RTE Ar RAST MTUY TIME eT ry

< f)

A A df |
To , Comments Bun.) Jind srt
A Ee a OPEL AT Pir OF ALGO e an Dra Sear BY GT Sr

' f ails . IAA) Je
1
CT I ER ATE AID anil RET

 

 

rr SR SL LMAO SEY SRE Eg Ss I oT A EE a I CA NO RE TL AS OID T= Sw
i ——— ———,_—— Ss SS A O——- a a a

2 0
\ } : { i } to J )
0 \





= _ Ao,
rg
H
Tc 9g O
o
NN =O po
= Ul. aD |
- = |
Q ta
© 0
oO + fe
he 5
j-
= =
ge f 3
Prepared | ct PO oN
24 5 o
0 E- tl Contents
be 5 Oo
Simon M. fod 0m =
tO ot Q 5 a + a Page
Bz Re Seog B Z INERODUCTION, sts sinsidensansiomivipionssans svtrsistasersunvenhonsionss Lr
Staff Men TO ge 5
Co = & = BROAD STATEMENT OF PROBLEM.......uueuveseeeseeo. Ceiksivseserine 5
Sct. fr >
® co 5 bd 3 5 x THE EXAMINATION PROCESS..........oeoe..... tbr Tncensisssemationss 6
=. ® =
Q Hw 2;
g = } g Eg = 3 © An Illustrative Application............ cance eresvee Sanense sssesves esesssusseesrrens 6
Li 2 ex - S 3 The Search ..... RR Vass Vive tas ies TEE Sire reais Ansa ia ua cer R812
So > z p 5 = The Examiner's Action ................. Curacesseas esvvsuneees esrsieteee esvruce ona | BD
je
Office of oie El E S The Applicant's ReSponse .........coeueeveeeeennnnnnn... Ceeterns Ch esrriTivanstines 23
ei) 5S E 5 Allowance of the Application.................... sr8tvesreirenian A wien 23
U. S. Pa 5 o Pp FH o 5 3
® eo 8 ro OTHER FORMS OF CLAIMS +esvermiomirersinsniisiosin tes oni cssecser 26
Dd ot > &
E = E ct o SS WHAT MUST BE ENCODED crorrenicocecossnssensmsmn Stecsussrosas Sstvereeesacerns 26
CR = = |
ise 8 M3 | ENCODING PROBLEMS................ Ce sebid strane 27
£0 iz
ce 2 CONCLUSIONS. .....c00000iee EE tvssssececiess rssecencanci are 28
E88 £ FE
go o CONCLUDING NOTES. i. cosmsssereitvaissssssiinmiesns te oie AE 28
phe >
Hot o | REFERENCES «conssinmssievoss smn Te A seinielis rE oi 29
EZ > |
; o u
Robert C. Watson Sinclair Weeks
Commissioner of Patents Secretary of Commerce
3


PROBLEMS IN MECHANIZING THE SEARCH
IN EXAMINING PATENT APPLICATIONS

Introduction

During the short time that the Office of
Research and Development has existed in
the U. S. Patent Office, it has become
abundantly clear that the complexity and
enormity of the problems to be solved in
mechanizing the searching of patent ap-
plications is not appreciated by many
working in the related field of informa-
tion retrieval. Much of the time of this
staff is taken in repeatedly explaining
these problems. This paper, therefore,
will portray some of the many details and
complexities which occur in the search-
ing process and outline some of the mani-
fold and interrelated problems that are
being considered in our research into
methods for, and means of, solving these
problems.

The patentability search is the first
step in the examination process, which
process constitutes the determination of
whether a patent should be granted on a
patent application. The requirement that
examinations be conducted is embodied
in law and constitutes a fundamental
characteristic of the operation of the
Patent Office. Examination of patent
applications involves examining printed
publications for disclosures of similar
structures, methods, compounds, compo-
sitions, etc. which may have been dis-
closed in the past and evaluating the
similarities and differences between this
recorded knowledge and the alleged in-
vention for which a patent is sought.

In order to understand the analysis which
follows, one should be aware that patents
are not granted on ideas. An alleged in-
ventor who wishes to apply for a patent
must disclose and describe at least one
preferred embodiment of his idea in a
patent application. And, if the nature of
the alleged invention admits of illustra-
tion, drawings are required illustrating

 

the detailed structure of the embodiment(s)
which he has elected to disclose.

Broad Statement of
Problem

An excellent statement of these mani-
fold problems in their broadest aspect, and
of cogent reasons for the necessity of a
solution to them through automation, was
contained in the report of the “Bush Com-
mittee,” (1) which stated in part:

Our patent system . is based on a
simple but wise philosophy. Thegrantofa U. S.
patent gives the inventor a temporary exclusive
right in return for a full disclosure of his idea.
Creative thinkers are thus provided with a solid
incentive for the development of the new and im-
proved. Simultaneously, the disclosure of the
invention stimulates further and constant ad-
vancement. In effect, each novel idea becomes a
“seed” from which a flourishing tree of practi-
cal knowledge can grow.

Thus the files of the Patent Office comprise a
veritable treasure house of information upon
which much of our industrial progress has been
based, including ideas whose significance may
not be realized for years after the disclosures.
They give today a clear indication of the present
thinking of the most ingenious minds in the
country as to where we will be five years or
more in the future.

The patent system plays a major part in the
Creation of new products and processes. These
appear every year and stimulate the establish-
ment of new companies to produce them. How-
ever, the individual inventor or small business-
man is severely handicapped if he must wait
several years for his patent to issue or if he
must operate for a period of years, in uncer-
tainty as to the possible appearance of a con-
flicting patent. If valid patents cannot be obtained
with reasonable dispatch, inventors are dis-
couraged and small businesses are without the
modest protection which enables them to enter
the field in competition with the larger, well
established firms. Yet it is the efforts of in-
ventors and the continuous advent of small
firms that keeps our economy flexible and free
of stagnation.


rime I€-

Much of the delay used bY 1° © ong the

quired (0 search the pertinent pa os "Even

2.700,000 which to0ay ake u roblem
if this is poy done, a rific litera
of searching oreignP i try,
ture. TO be entitled to @ patent 1 ses y

one must be the first inven 0 =-211 ure

the foreign patents and

not readily searched,

always in jeopardy
It is estimated that 60% of the time

examiners 18 now spent in the sear

is involves a thorough compar
Cari claims with all prior disclosures,
determiné whether the wor of t
expressed fails to represent inv
has gone before: by addition i the: =
examiners, the public searc
Office is also filled every day, and often int© the
late evening with hundreds of searchers go at-
torneys poring through the files on pehalf of 10-
nd the inventor.

rhe u. g. patent sytem is atthe crossroads
today. While the examiners are as dedicat
and competent a8 their predecessors, they face
a task infinitely more complex than that of an
earlier day. The unprecedented pace of science
and industry at home and abroad is producing
new facts, scientific reports and patent informa-
tion at a rate beyond the capacity of procedures
which served our fathers well.

These facts are obvious to the patent expert
but are not appreciated by the general public, for
whose welfare the system Was established.
Equally, the serious situation now facing the U.S.
patent Office today is not being generally rec-
ognized although some of the difficulties had been
pointed out to the Appropriations Subcommittees
of both House and Senate during the hearings
held in connection with the 1955 Patent Office
appropriation hearings. The Office has a force
of approximately 700 examiners struggling to
keep abreast of these mountains of knowledge.
Despite their efforts, there are more than 200, -
000 applications awaiting action, and the present
staff is unable to keep the size of this backlog
from increasing.

The Examination Process

In order to illustrate some of the spe-
cific problems involved, we will follow
the prosecution of a simple patent appli-
cation before an examiner in the Patent
Office in some detail.

 

An [llustrative Application

Exhibit 1 shows the drawings of an ap-

plication which has recently matured into
_g. Patent (2).

This application was for «an ornamental
bead necklace.” In this application the
individual peads Were disclosed as being
connected to one another by separable
fasteners the two parts of which were each
integral with each on€ of the beads.
Hence the Jecklace could be taken apart
at any joint and beads added or taken
out, so that the length Of the necklace
could be changed, OY beads of different
types, colors, etc.» could be alternatively
utilized in making up the necklace.

As required by the patent Office Rules
of Practice, the application contained a
complete description of the alleged inven-
rions, known as the specification which re-

a ——————
ferred to the drawing as 1t described the

several different embodiments of the pat-
entee’s idea. The specification of this
application is reproduced here.

1 This jnvention relates to ornamental beads and
similar bodies and its objectisto provide an im-
roved means of connecting OT linking such
bodies together, for example, tO make up a string
of beads.
» According tO this invention, at least one of a
pair of bodies which are to be joined together is
formed of resilient material; one of the pair is
provided with a neck carrying a head and the
other is formed with a socket which is entered
through a mouth of smaller cross-section than
the socket interior, the head on one body and the
mouth on the other being sO shaped and dimen
sioned in relation toone another thatthe head will
not ordinarily pass through the mouth but, du
to the resilience of said resilient material, caf
be forced through with a snap action when it 18
desired to join TWO bodies together.
3 The invention i8 particularly applicable tothe
making up of a string of beads. Each bead m8},
be provided with a head at one end and a socket
at the other so that a string can be made up
a number of such beads.
1+ Preferably each of the bodies to be joined 1
moulded from synthetic plastic material such
polyethylene and may have the neck an
formed integrally with the main par

ORNAMENTAL BEADED NECKLACE

 

Exhibit 1


—

 

 

be
members may
s A string of beads Of heed dimensions, the
beads of different :
formed of bea being graded In
. beads and sockets ing Ai
connecting 1,08 rranged to fit 1ntO a
size, each head being Ga and into a socket
socket on the same size ler size.
nd/or the next sma
of the next larger a 4 sockets need
f sizes of heads and 8
The number O f beads
he number of sizes 0
not be the same as t or
for example that two
and ir may be fond, 7 1d be sufficient for a
three sizes of sockets Wou tr will be
beads. However, it Wi
necklace of graded beads. * heads and
‘ated that, when possible, the hea
sockets are most conveniently all 0
size.
6 In an alternative arrangement of fost of re
kind described are formed as a set 0 =e
different dimensions, the connecting hea Fm
be arranged to fit only Into correspondingly
sized sockets and special junction beads may be
provided with heads and sockets of eon
responding sizes. By thisarrangementd grad
necklace may be built up with a number of sets
of beads, possibly of graded sizes, having the
same size heads and sockets and with tne vari-
ous sets of beads joined by the special junction
beads.
7 According to a further feature of the present
invention each bead may be formed of a number
of parts which are joined together, for example,
by being made in the form of two halves of a
hemisphere which are subsequently joined. This
construction has the advantage that it enables
hollow beads to be made, which is particularly
advantageous for larger size beads since it
saves material and enables a light-weight bead
to be made. This form of construction further-
more provides one means of making multi-
coloured beads since the various parts of the
bead may be made of different coloured ma-
terials.
8 The two halves of a bead formed as two hol-
low hemispheres may be made to join together
with a snap action, for example by forming one
hemisphere with a portion, around the mouth
of reduced external diameter so as to fit in-
side the mouth of the other hemisphere. The two
engaging hemispheres may be resiliently locked
by forming a number of recesses or a circum-
ferential groove on one of the mating surfaces
and corresponding projections or a circum-
ferential ridge on the other.
9 Another method of making multi-
beads is by using a double I ulti-coloured
h i0ub ulding process. In
such a process the first mould may b
to prod be ; Y be arranged
: Pp se 3 ad having a number of recesses or
rooves which are filled in the se i
stage. Alternatively, the first ond oun
mav be ’ moulding stage
y be arranged to produce a seri
areas, for example star-gha cries of shaped
ped areas positioned

to lie on the outer surface of the
the final moulding and so appearing o
surface of the bead.

10 Another form of multi-coloured appear.
may be made by putting plastic materia] of
or more different colours in the mould jp su ;
manner that it is not mixed homogeneously ths

by obtaining a streaky or mottled appearance,
the surface of the beads.
11 The method of joining beads or similar bode

described above is applicable to pendant gpg.
ments such as earrings. For some such he
ments it may be desirable to provide beads
with more than one socket whereby two or more
pendant beads or like bodies may be attacheg to
one bead.

12 For use in a string of beads, it may be cgp.
venient to mould a plurality of beads together a5
a unit, the beads being joined by a flexible neck.
Such a unit would be provided with a neck apg
head at one end and a socket at the other end g
that a series of such units canbe joined together
or joined to individual beads to form a necklace
or the like.

13 A particular feature of the construction of
beads described above is that it permits of con-
siderable flexibility in the junction between the
beads. This flexibility may be obtained either
by flexibility of the neck or by the freedom of
play of the neck in the socket of the next bead.
Preferably the socket is formed with a conical
or similar opening to permit angular movement
of adjacent beads without the necessity of flex-
ing the neck. It may be found desirable in some
cases totaper the neck in order to permit greater
freedom of movement. Such taper need not
necessarily be a straight taper. It will be ap-
preciated also that the use of a long neck will
increase the flexibility of a necklace formed
from such beads.

14 It will be understood that modifications of the
above construction are possible without depart-
ing from the scope of the invention. For example,
instead of having a socket on one side and stem
on the other, each bead may be formed with two
sockets, the beads being connected together by
means of separate double-headed stems OI link
pieces. Furthermore, the inventionhas applica
tions other than to ornamental beads; a modifié

form of this construction may be employed i
the production of models used to illustrate
molecular structures. f
15 The following is a description of a number ©
embodiments of the invention, reference betrf
made to the accompanying drawings in as
16Figures 1 and 2 are respectively @ 8 J
elevation and a sectional elevation of 2 bea
constructed according to the invention, 4
17 Figure 3 is a cross-section showing, jon

mould for
Nn the Outer

together, a number of beads of the kind illus-
trated in Figures 1 and 2;

18 Figure 4 is a cross-section through a number
of beads of an alternative construction;

19 Figure 5 is a cross-section through yeta fur-
ther construction of bead;

20 Figure 6 is a cross-section illustrating a bead
adapted to receive a pendant ornament;

21 Figure 7 illustrates a construction of necklace
in which individual bead members have a number
of bead elements moulded integrally together,
and

22 Figure 8 is a cross-section of a modified
form of the bead of Figures 1 and 2.

23 Referring to Figures 1 to 3, there is shown a
construction of bead necklace in which each
bead is formed as a solid substantially spherical
body 10 having projecting radially therefrom a
short and comparatively thin neck 11 carryinga
substantially spherical head 12. Diametrically
opposite the head 12 is a socket 13 which is en-
tered by way of a mouth 14 of slightly smaller
diameter than the head 12 of another bead which
is to be received in the socket. The mouth is
slightly below the surface of the main part of
the body 10 and is entered by way of a tapered
entry passage 15. These beads are made by
moulding resilient plastic material, such as
polyethylene. The resilience of the material
permits of the head 12 on one bead being forced
through the mouth 14 into the socket 13 of
another bead. The socket is made amply large
enough to accommodate the head 12. The head
can thus move in the socket. Since also there
is provided the tapered entry passage 15, the
construction allows angular movement between
the beads so as to provide the requisite flexibili-
ty of a string of such beads. It will be seen that
the beads can be strung together without the
need of any conventional thread or cord and
that, moreover, the conventional clasp for
fastening a necklace can also be dispensed with
if desired. A necklace may be made up of a
number of identical beads but, as shown in Figure
3, the beads may be graded in size. Preferably
all the heads and sockets are made of the same
size but in a graded necklace it may be neces-
sary on the smaller beads to have smaller heads
and sockets. In such a case, the connecting
heads and sockets may be graded in size so that
each head will fit into a socket onthe same size
bead and into a socket of the nextlarger or .next
smaller size. Alternatively, the connecting

heads may be aranged only to fit into corre-
spondingly sized sockets and special junction
beads provided with heads and sockets of non-
corresponding sizes.

21 The heads may be made spherical as described
above or may be conico-spherical in shape, that

is to say, the head is formed of a hemisphere
which at its diametral plane is joined to a cir-

cular cone, the conical part of the head being

arranged with its apex directed outwardly facili-

tating the assembly of the beads. In this latter

case, the socket mouth may conveniently be

made circular with a diameter less than that of

the major axis of the head.

25 Figure 4 illustrates an alternative construc-

tion in which each bead 20 is provided with two

sockets 21, 22. The beads are joined by con-

necting links each formed by a stem 23 having

heads 24, 25 at the two ends thereof. It will be

readily apparent that it would also be possible to

use the beads 20 with beads having two heads

projecting from diametrically-opposite points.

26 For large beads it may be preferable to con-

struct the bead as a hollow member in order to
save material and enable the bead tobe of lighter

weight. Such a hollow bead may be constructed
as shown in Figure 5inwhich the bead is formed
of two separate moulded parts 31, 32 each of sub-

stantially hemispherical form. The part 32 is
shown as having an inwardly-directed flange 33
which engages a recess 34 formed on the part
31. The resilience of the material permits the
two halves to be joined together with a snap
action. It will be appreciated that the flange 33
may not extend completely around the mouth of
the hemisphere and might consist only of a num-

ber of projecting lugs which engage correspond-

ing recesses in the part 31. The parts 31 and
32 are formed one with a head 35 and the other
with a socket 36 for connection to similar beads
as in the previously described embodiments.

For convenience of moulding, in the two-part
bead of Figure 5, the socket is formed by a
short passage which tapers inwardly from both

ends to have a throat through which a bead is

forced to pass into the hollow interior of the
bead. It will be appreciated that hollow beads

similar to Figure 5 might be made of more than
two parts and also that the various parts may be

made of different colours to form multi-coloured

beads.

27 As shown in Figure 6, a bead 40 may be pro-

vided with a plurality of heads and/or sockets,

for example two sockets 41, 42 and a head 43 so

that it may be joined to three other bodies. Such

a bead will permit of a pendant ornament being

fixed on to a necklace or the like. It will, of

course, be appreciated that the heads and/or

sockets may be formed in any selected positions.

og As shown in Figure 7, a number of beads 44

may be formed as an integral unit joined by

necks 45. Such an arrangement may facilitate

the construction and assembly of a necklace by

reducing the number of units required to be

joined together. Each group of beads may be


t
provided with a head 46 at one end and a socke

47 at the other. ;
29 Figure 8 is a cross-secll
of the bead of Figures 1 and 2.
socket is formed by a cylindrica
a throat 51 formed by an In
flange 52.

on of a modified form

In Figure 8, the
1 cavity S50 having
wardly-directed

The Claims

A series of claims followed the specifi-
cation. Each claim attempted to define
an invention by reciting structural and
interrelational features of one or more of
the embodiments disclosed.

If any claims are later allowed by the
Examiner, they may become part of a
patent to be granted on this disclosure,
and such claims will then constitute a
legal grant, to the patentee, of the rightto
prevent others from making, using or sel-
ling these inventions, as defined by the
claims, during the term of the patent.

An applicant, in preparing claims for an
application, attempts to define in words,
every set of characteristics or details
which he believes he has invented. Such
details may be numerous. Hence he
prepares a number of different claims,
in which he permutes and combines these
details. Thus an application may often
have a substantial number of claims.

Claims which permute and combine
those details which apply to a single em-
bodiment of an inventive thought, will be
a series of specific claims of varying
scope to this single embodiment, while
those which apply to the common concept
of several embodiments will be generic
claims of varying but broader scope than
those to the separate embodiments.

Herewith are 17 of the claims which
the applicant presented in this illustra.
tive application:

9. A set of beads formed of resilient syn-
thetic plastic material, wherein each bead is
formed as a bulbous member with a socket and

head, the neck and head

various beads being s
In relation to one an

10

will not ordinarily pass through the

I socket of another but, due to the Teal

] NCe
of the material, can be forced through with
snap action when it is desired to join twq beads
together.
So. A set of beads as claimed in cy;
wherein the bulbous members are all of Similar
size and wherein ie ishds on a he bead
the same size an e mouths of the sock
all the beads are the same size.

11. A set of beads as claimed in clajp 9
wherein the bulbous members are of differen;
sizes and wherein the heads on at least a] of
group of the beads are the same size and the
Jig sie suis cnet least oll Fale
of the bea .

12. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9,
wherein at least one of the beads is a ho]gy
member.

13. A set of beads as claimed in claim 12,
Whereln Sp Sow arenes is formed of two
parts which are joined together.

14. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9,
wherein at least one of the beads is formed by a
double moulding process.

15. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9,
wherein at least one of the beads is formed with
an additional socket whereby it may be joined
to those other beads.

16. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9,
wherein at least one of the beads is formed with
an additional head and neck whereby it may be
joined to those other beads.

17. A set of beads formed of resilient syn-
thetic plastic material, wherein each bead is
formed as a bulbous member, beads tobe joined
being formed one with a neck carrying a head
and the other with a socket, said socket having a
mouth of smaller cross-section than the socket
Interior, the heads and mouths on beads to be
joined being so shaped and dimensioned in rela-
tion to one another that the head will not ordi-
narily pass through the mouth but can be forced
through with a snap action when it is desired
to join the beads together. )

18. A set of beads made of resilient synthetic
Plastic material, which beads are formed of a
number of groups of integrally moulded beads,
the beads in a group being moulded with thin in-
terconnecting necks, and the groups to be joined
being formed at one end with a neck carrying a
head and at the other end with a socket, said
socket having a mouth of smaller cross-section
than the socket interior, the heads and mouths
on groups to be joined being so shaped
dimensioned in relation to one another that the
head Will not ordinarily pass through the mouth

i an be forced through with a snap action
When it is desired to join the groups.

8 are
ets on

20. In a series of beads, a first bead com-
prising a body of resilient synthetic plastic

“material and having a neck portion of resilient

synthetic plastic material extending from one
side of said body, a head carried at the end of
said neck of larger cross sectional size than the
neck, said body having a hollow portion forming
a socket having a mouth spaced from said neck
portion, the opening of said mouth being smaller
in cross sectional area than the opening inside
of said mouth, and at least one additional bead
having a similar neck, head and hollow body
portion, made of similar resilient synthetic
plastic material, the head of said additional bead
being of larger cross sectional area than the
mouth of said hollow portion of the first bead
but of smaller cross sectional area than the
opening inside of said mouth whereby two adja-
cent beads may be snapped together or apartdue
to the resilience of the head and mouth of the
respective beads.

21. The beads as set forth in claim 20 com-
prising a plurality of permanently attached beads
formed of one integral piece of synthetic plastic
material with a neck and head on the bead at a
first end of the plurality and a socket with said
mouth formed in the bead at the opposite end.

22. The beads as set forth in claim 20 in
which the head of said bead is substantially
spherical and in which the opening of said mouth
is substantially circular in cross section.

23. The beads as set forth in claim 20 in
which said mouth is below the external surface
of the body and comprises an inwardly converg-
ing passage extending from the surface of the
body.
24. The beads as set forth in claim 20
wherein said head is of conico spherical form
with the apex directed outwardly.

25. The beads as set forth in claim 20
wherein said beads are formed of polyethylene.

26. A set of beads made up of a chain of a
plurality of beads formed of resilient synthetic
plastic material, each of said plurality of beads
comprising a bead-like body position having a
neck of substantial length extending from one
side thereof, said neck having an enlarged gen-
erally spherical portion at the end thereof, a
round socket having a mouth of reduced area ex-
tending inwardly from the side opposite to said
neck portion, the narrowest portion of said mouth
of reduced area being situated inwardly of the
surface of said body portion and connecting with
the surface by an outwardly diverging opening,
the head of each of said beads being fitted in the
socket of an adjacent bead to form a string of
beads with the mouth of the socket surrounding

11

a portion of said neck adjacent the head thereof,
the head of each of said beads having such a
diameter that it will not ordinarily pass through
the mouth of reduced area of the next adjacent
bead, the said head however, due to the resilience
of the material, being removable from said
mouth with a snap action to open said chain.

27. A set of beads made up of a chain of a
plurality of beads formed substantially entirely
of polyethylene, each of said plurality of beads
comprising a bead-like body portion having a
neck of substantial length extending from one
side thereof, said neck having an enlarged
generally spherical portion at the end thereof,
a round socket having a mouth of reduced area
extending inwardly from the side opposite to
said neck portion, the narrowest portion of said
mouth of reduced area being situated inwardly
of the surface of said body portion and connect-
ing with the surface by an outwardly diverging
opening, the head of each of said beads being
fitted in the socket of an adjacent bead to form
a string of beads with the mouth of the socket
surrounding a portion of said neck adjacent the
head thereof, the head of each of said beads
having such a diameter that it will not ordi-
narily pass through the mouth of reduced area
of the next adjacent bead, the said head however,
due to the resilience of the polyethylene, being
removable from said mouth with a snap action
to open said chain.

It will be noted that, by means of in-
clusion of one or more specific details,
the applicant had directed different claims,
either generically, subgenerically, or spe-
cifically, to each of the seven illustra-
tive species of his disclosed inventions
(see the specification paragraphs 15 to 22,
inclusive.) For example, claim 8 was di-
rected generically to a set of beads as
illustrated in figure 3 (exhibit 1), although.
the individual beads could also consist of
the type illustrated in figures 1 and 2, 5,
6, or 8, or to any combination of two or
more of them; claim 11, specifically to
the set of beads as illustrated in figure 3
exclusively; claims 12 and 13 to a set of
the beads made up from the species of
figure 5 exclusively; claim 15 to a set
of beads made up from the species of
figure 6 exclusively; and claim 18 to a
set of beads made up from the species
of figure 7 exclusively.


I ——

The Search

A patentability search by an examiner
requires a simultaneous inquiry into many
different aspects of all of the embodl-
ments disclosed in the application. Each
claim presented constitutes a different
statement of what the applicant conceives
one of his inventions to be. As can be
seen from the quoted claims, many ele-
mental details, and many relations be-
tween two or more details (hereinafter
called interrelational combinations) are
recited both specifically and generically.
Each invention, interrelational combina-
tion and detail must be separately searched
for, not only in the field to which the
invention pertains, but also into other
fields of endeavor where any of the in-
terrelational combinations and/or details
are disclosed or used analogously.

The Patent Law decrees, inter alia,
that any printed or published document
may be utilized as a bar toa patent claim.
As the examiner searches, he finds an-
ticipatory publications which are called
references in Patent Office terminology.
He judges the scope of the various in-
ventions claimed in the application by the
references found during the search.

The Patent Office search utilizes a
classification system consisting of a se-
ries of classes directed toward some
restricted phase of a scientific or tech-
nical field. Each of these classes is
further divided into subclasses directed
to some more detailed phase, feature, or
combination of features from that field.
At the present time there are more than
307 main classes and over 50,000 sub-
classes. A class may consist of only a
few or more than a thousand subclasses.

In examining this case, the examiner
made an extensive search thru many dif-
ferent subclasses, each of which he chose
because of some detail which he believed

12

he needed, in order to find the mogt
pertinent references to anticipate both the
claims and the disclosure. For example
although the joint between the beads is
disclosed for use only with beads, he
searched for each of the several differ-
ent joints illustrated, not only between
beads, but in any other type of structure

where the joint performs its joining func-

tion in the same, in a similar, or in ap

uivalent manner.

The Search for Beads

He first directed his search into class
41, ORNAMENTATION, subclass 10, Or-
namental Forms, where the case had been
assigned and in which the precise inven-
tions as claimed would have been found,
if they were patented. In this subclass,
the Examiner found the references, ex-
cerpts of which will be found in exhibits
2 and 3.

The disclosure of exhibit 2 (3) is a
Christmas tree ornament. It is made by
assembling two semi-spheres and, con-
sidering this joint as an equator, the
ornament has a fixed internal pipelike
structure at one pole designed to receive
a separable fastener part. This was prob-
ably cited to show the structure of the two
part ornamental bead of figure 5S (exhibit
1) with its cylindrical well-shaped, polar
opening for the reception of another fast-
ener part.

The disclosure in exhibit 3 (4) is thatof
an ornamental chain, made up from a
series of like links simulating butter-
flies, each of which has a resilient fast-
ening member in the form of two anten-
nae, and a cooperating fastening member
in the form of a hole, these two fastening
members being on opposite sides of the
link. The disclosure states that any
number of these links can be detachably

joined together to form a chain of any
desired length.

CHRISTMAS TREE DECORATIVE BALL HANGER

 

This invention relates to a Christmas tree
ornament, specifically a ball .type ornament.
The invention particularly relates to means for
hanging the ball on a tree. The invention is
particularly well adapted to metal balls which
are now commonly employed.

The ball generally designated by the numeral
10 is herein shown as made out of two parts 11
and 12, the two parts telescoping one another
about a diametrical zone. The portion 12 is a
hemisphere, the marginal portion 13 of which
fits frictionally over a flange 14 which is formed
to extend from the upper hemisphere portion 11.

The upper portion 11 is formed to have an in-
verted nipple 15 tubular in nature.

A wire hanger 16 is formed to have a central
main shank 17, on the lower end of which is

 

turned angularly and upwardly therefrom a foot
18 to form in effect a hook. On the upper end of
the hanger 16 there is provided an eye 19, the
diameter of which is larger than the internal
diameter of the nipple 15. Thelengthof the foot
18 is such that normally the distance from its
point 20 across to the shank 17 is greater than
the internal diameter of the nipple 15.

The hanger 16 is attached to the ball 10 by
forcing the foot end downwardly through the
nipple 15 to cause the foot 18 to fold inwardly
toward the shank 17, and then when the end 20
of the foot is carried downwardly below the end
of the nipple 15, it may springback to its normal
position whereupon the foot 18 is engaged over
the lower end 21 of the nipple 15. The hanger
16 thus can not be withdrawn from the ball 10
without an undue pull being exerted on the
hanger, the pull being far greater than any pull
would ever be employed with the ball 10 hanging
on the Christmas tree. The eye 19 prevents the
hanger 16 from dropping inside of the ball 10.

The juncture of the nipple 15 with the surface
22 of the hemisphere portion 11 is through a
radial bend 23 giving an external rounded corner
which permits the eye 19 todrop somewhat with-
in the nipple 15.

Exhibit 2

13


ORNAMENTAL CHAIN

 

This invention relates to improvements in
necklaces, belts, bracelets, and the like, and has
for its object to provide a device of this nature
formed of a series of detachably connected
members whereby the length of the chain may be
adjusted to the purposedesired and which may be
quickly changed by adding to or removing de-
tachable sections therefrom.

1 indicates a chain, formed of a series of de-
tachably connected members 2, which may be
made of flat sheet metal or other suitable ma-
terial, said members, in the showing, being in

the form of butterflies, the antennae 3 and 4 of
which are formed of spring wire and terminate
in half balls or knobs 5 and 6, said balls being
adapted to be sprung together to be project
through the opening 7, in the rear end 8, of the
body 9 of an adjoining section or member, after
which they will spread and hold the sections 10-
gether.

It will thus be seen that a chain of Hhigse
butterflies may be made of any desired lengt
and very quickly at that.

Exhibit 2

14

The Search in Plastics

The examiner next proceeded to class
18, PLASTICS, where he searched sub-
class 49, which is directed both to proc-
esses of molding and uniting, and to cer-
tain types of articles made by such
processes. In this subclass, the examiner
searched for any molded plastic article
which he was searching, for example,
some statement of the inherent resilient
characteristic of polyethylene. Since no
art was cited from this class, we can as-
sume that he found nothing more perti-

nent than the references which he later
cited.

The Search for Joints

Next in the search process was class
35, EDUCATION, subclass 60 Furniture,
in which the examiner hoped to find
analogous separable joints. This sub-
class is directed to devices in the nature
of furniture which may be used in teach-
ing. Here, too, no more pertinent art
than that later cited was found.

Next, the examiner went to class 46,
AMUSEMENT DEVICES, TOYS; subclas-
ses 16, 17, 18, and 22. These subclasses
are directed to construction toys, partic-
ularly of the knockdown type. Specifically
toy stores and figures were searched.
Here the examiner searched to find con-
catenated elements with separable joints
similar to those claimed and disclosed.
The references found as the result of
this search are excerpted in exhibits 4,
5, and 6.

The disclosure of exhibit 4 (5) illus-
trates a piece of toy furniture made of
blocks, which blocks may be interchanged
and separably connected in several dif-
ferent arrangements. One of the separa-
ble fastening means disclosed is a rubber
shaped dumbbell, which cooperates with
bulbous, rigid-walled sockets in both mem-
bers. This was probably cited because
of the dumbbell fastener 23 of figure 4,
exhibit 1.

This citation is interesting in that the
dumbbell of the reference is resilient and
the sockets rigid. This is the reverse of

the disclosure inthe application, but points
up the problem of equivalency, which will
be discussed later in this paper. Even
though the resiliency of the fastener parts
is reversed, the citation of this patent
might discourage the later presentation of
a broad claim involving such a joint,
e. g., a claim to such structure where
“one of the elements is resilient.”

The disclosure of exhibit 5 (6) is a sec-
tional toy figure made up, in part, of a
series of molded links with bulbous pro-
jecting connectors at one end, and
shouldered sockets at the other end.
These are shown concatenated to make a
string of cylindrical members forming a
doll’s limbs precisely in the same manner
as the spherical beads of the applica-
tion make a string of beads. There is
also a disclosure of a link with a pro-
jecting fastener at right angles to the axis
of the other two fasteners which might be
held to suggest a reversal of the struc-
ture of the bead of figure 6 of exhibit 1.

The disclosure of exhibit 6 (7) is an
educational toy employing a round spheri-
cal element with a tapered plug project-
ing axially from the surface. Diametrical-
ly opposite to the plug there is a tapered
socket, and four additional similar sockets
spaced 90° apart around the surface at
the equator. There is also a board or
base with a pattern of similar tapered
holes. The spherical members may be
assembled by the insertion of the plug
in any of the sockets in any other sphere,
or in the board, as shown. This patent
was probably cited by the examiner for
the disclosure of figure 6 of exhibit 1,
as well as for the disclosure of selec-
tively concatenating spherical bodies.

Next the examiner searched class 24,
BUCKLES, BUTTONS, CLASPS, ETC.,
subclass 108, directed to separable buttons
and fasteners with spring type resilient
sockets; subclass 116, for chain-type
cord and rope holders; and subclass 208,
for head and socket separable fasteners
of the axial closure type. The pertinency
of this search field is obvious. From this
class, the examiner cited the disclosures,
excerpts of which are shown in exhibits
7 to 9, inclusive.


SECTIONAL TOY FURNITURE

 

My invention relates to improvements in sec-

tional furniture for children, the primary object

being to provide for taking apart by children of
different pieces of play furniture, and teach to
them the art of putting things together in proper
relation.

More specifically, it is theobject of my inven-
tion to provide means for easily and quickly
fastening blocks together so that the same may
be readily pulled apart to separate the sections.

A pair of cubical blocks 1 are formed at a
pair of diagonally opposite corners with sockets
7 therein for a purpose presently seen.

7
7
V
%

7
\N/

1 J
NY
CAT A

“777 [2

 

Preferably dowel pins of rubber are provided
for fitting in the sockets 7 with a friction fit to
form therewith fasteners for securing the cubi-
cal blocks 1 together, the fasteners forming
pull-apart connections.

The sockets are provided with bulbous inner
ends and the pins, designated 15, with similar
ends 16 for compression to insert the same into
the sockets and form tight pull-apart con-
nections.

Exhibit 4

 

SECTIONAL TOY FIGURE

This invention relates to improvements in sec-
tional toy figures having interengageable con-
struction pieces. It is an object of the invention
to provide a set of toy building pieces and con-
necting elements of an improved form which may
be interchangeably interconnected to build an in-
creased variety of figures; to provide the set
with pieces having improved joints for their de-
tachable and articulate interconnection; and to
provide a sectional toy figure with a limb piece
having an improved axial socket with walls of
less curvature than the ball to embrace the ball
in point contact.

Another object is to provide the limb socket
with shouldering elements which insure a posi-
tive positioning of the interconnected ball, re-
quiring spreading of the walls to disconnect the
ball from the socket.

The various balls of the connective pieces pro-
vide articulated joint connection with the sock-
eted ends of the limb pieces 53 of the figures.
Each limb piece 53 is provided at one end wit!
a ball 54 which is axially supported from the
piece upon a reduced neck portion 55. The oppo-
site end of the piece is provided with an axial
socket indicated generally as 58 which cooper-
ates with the balls of the various connective
pieces to provide a detachable and articulate
joint therebetween.

The socket 58 is formed with oppositely dis-
posed flat walls 59 spaced apart a distance
slightly less than the diameter of the standard
size ball to grip the ball periphery at diametri-
cally opposed points thereon. The transverse
socket walls are slotted at 61 and 60 and are
relieved intermediate the ends of the socket to

Exhibit 5

16

 

SECTIONAL TOY FIGURE

 

form semi-circular openings 62, the inner
corners of which act as.seats for an intercon-
nected ball. The slot 61 communicates from
opening 62 to the socket entrance to provide a
channel for relatively free articulation of the
ball in a plane transverse to the ball axis be-
tween its point contact with the walls 59, and
receives the neck portion supporting the ball.
The slot 60 is somewhat narrower and extends
inwardly to lengthen the resistant spring armsto
more firmly embrace the ball.

The body materjal forming the edges of the
slots 60 and 61 may be considered as flanges
mutually extended from each wall 59 toward
similar flanges on the opposite wall to embrace
the ball within a seat defined by the semicircular
aperture 62.

Although the socket id preferably molded
initially to the indicated shape it may be alter-
natively described as comprising an axial bore
having flat walls 59 and an intersecting lateral
bore 62. The socket walls at either side of the
lateral bore 62 are slotted or cut away at 60 and
6l. The apices of the intersecting bores and
8lots, comprising the upper inner corners 64 and
lower inner corners 65 provide shoulders de-
fining the interconnected position of the ball.
The relative dimension of the ball is such as to
Tequire pressure to spring the resilient socket
Walls ‘to admit or remove the ball. In actual

 

--Con.

 

49

Practice the socket dimensions are made such
as to permit slight movement of the ball in its
socket with the shoulders defining limiting posi-
tions of such movement. However, it is evident
that within such limits the ball position is posi-
tively defined and is restrained from separation
from the socket except upon forcing the walls
apart to accommodate withdrawal.

In addition to the seats or shoulders formed
by the inner corners 65, the flattened side por-
tions 59 of the socket terminate at the level of
the top of kerf 60 in an additional arcuate seat or
shoulder 63, to limit inward reception of the
balls. Outward movement of the seated ball is
restrained by the corners 64. The seated ball
generally accommodates itself within the socket
in a position limited by the engagement of the
inner edges of the semi-circular apertures 62
and the corners 64 and 65 thereof, with ball
surface. The ball is resiliently held in position
within the socket and it is necessary to forceably
spread the walls 59 and corners by pressure on
the inserted ball to insert or remove the ball
respecting the socket. In this manner complete
articulation is possible and the resilient pres-
sure tends to hold the parts in adjusted position
but the joint is not subject to inadvertent sepa-
ration.

All of the various set pieces may be made of
plastic or like material which admits of mass
production by die casting or molding operations.

The pieces are easily assembled and by vir-
tue of the novel articulated positive joint con-
nections the figures will hold their assembled
form in any selected position until disassembled.

Exhibit 5—Con.

17


NEW OR IMPROVED CONSTRUCTIONAL TOY AND EDUCATIONAL DEVICE

 

This invention concerns a new or improved
toy and educational device for young children
and the object of the invention is to provide a
simple harmless article which will both amuse
and educate.

According to the invention there is provided
a device which comprises a base and a plurality
of small individual elements each provided with
a spigot and also with one or more holes or
recesses so as to be adapted for interconnection
by engaging the spigots in the recesses and for
connection to the base which is also provided
with cooperating recesses. Thus the elements
may be built up upon the base and one upon
another in various constructional forms and
numerical order. Thus the toy can be used
whilst constructing various amusing shapes or
structures.

In the embodiment of the invention the toy
comprises a wooden base of rectangular form
provided with three rows of vertically disposed
cylindrical recesses in its upper side.

The recesses in each row are equally spaced
from one another and the spacing of the recesses
in all the rows is the same but the recesses of
the centre row are offset or staggered with
respect to those in the outer rows.

In combination. with this base there are pro-
vided twenty individual elements each in the
form of a wooden sphere and each provided
with a radially projecting spigot preferably of
slightly frustro-conical form. Each sphere is
also provided with a series of radial recesses
which may be formed by drilling diametrically
through or radially into the sphere. Preferably
one radial recess is aligned with the spigot and
two or more other similar recesses are arranged
with their axes transverse to the spigot.

_ The spigot on each sphere is adapted to fit
Into any of the recesses of the other spheres or
Into one of the recesses in the base.

By making the spigots of a slightly tapered
form a reasonably tight fit of the spigots into
the recesses is achieved and compensation ic
provided for wear in the spigots and recesses.

The spigots of the spheres are preferably
made integrally with the spheres.
~ Although an article according to this invention
18 very conveniently made of wood it should be
understood that it may be made partly or wholly
in other materials. For instance the article

could very conveniently be made from synthetic
resin mouldings.

Exhibit 6

 

FASTENER

    
   

 

7 Re —— 4 Rr EE
2 a] 272772 X

ZZ 7227 rr

JF I

    

Our present invention consists in a novel and
improved method of interchangeable fasteners,
as well as an improved fastening apparatus.

Broadly considered, our invention consists in
the provision of devices which will enable dif-
ferent sets of ornaments for apparel or the like
to be utilized on the same fastening members.

Referring to the fastener the outer, upper or
finished button member is designated generally
at 1. This button comprises an inner flanged
shell 2 in circular form, with a central socket
portion 3 struck up therein, having a pair of
grooves or recesses 4, 4, cut in the shank part
d to receive the end portions 6, 6, of a spring
10, the latter having its main part housed
against the flange 2 of the shell and maintained
in position by curving over the edge 7 of the
flange of said shell or body portion2. This con-
struction forms the socket member of the
fastener herein illustrated.

Attached to the shell or body portion 2 is the
finished element 12, preferably in the form of a
concavo-convex button surface.

By having a series or set of different colored
elements 12 for the buttons, the manufacture of
our fasteners with a plurality of sets of colored
buttons for interchangeable attachment, is ac-
complished. This element 12 may be applied in
any desired manner, but we prefer tosecure the
same firmly to the button portion, for this pur-
Pose utilizing a ring 15 turning in the edge
portions 16 and 17 upon the marginal edge of the
element 12 and of the shell or body member 2.
The combined button and fastener thus described
can be utilized either as an interchangeable
finished member for our invention, and for this
purpose may be attached to and detached from
other colored or finished buttons.

To cooperate with the button as thus far
described, we provide an intermediate fastener
member consisting in the plate or body portion
20 and stud 21, the latter of suitable form,
length and size to fit within the socket 3 and
having a neck 22 arranged to snap by and there-
after be secured by the end portions 6, 6 of the
spring 10. In order to make this member also
a cooperating detachable fastener element, we
provide a pair of recesses 24, 24, through one
portion of the neck 22, and fit within the body
portion 20 a spring 25, having its end portions
26, 26, corresponding with the end portions 6,
6, of the spring 10 already described. Tis
spring is retained within the member 20 by its
normal expansibility and the turning over of the
edge portion 27 thus affording a marginal recess
therefor. To cooperate with the intermediate
fastener 20 just described, a third fastener
element 30 is arranged, having a stud 31 adapted
to fit within a combined stud and socket member
21 of the intermediate fastener 20, the neck por-
tion 32 being arranged to “snap” by the spring
ends 26 in the same manner as that already
described.

Exhibit 7


READILY APPLICABLE AND REMOVABLE GARMENT BUTTON

 

The present invention relates to certain new
and useful improvements in garment buttons and
has more particular reference to a readily ap-
plicable and removable button construction which
may be completely detached which may be
readily applied for use and which does not have
to be sewn in place.

The male unit is denoted by the numeral 14
and is not unusual in that itincludes a one-piece
construction having a circular or equivalent base
16, a neck or shank 18 and a spear-like enlarge-
ment constituting a head 20. Primarily, this
unit is merely a headed base and is adapted to
preferably coordinate with the complemental
female unit 22. Both units may be and preferably
are constructed of suitable flexible resilient
materials, preferably commercial plastics. The
female unit 22 is characterized by a deformable
pressure responsive or stress type deformable
diaphragm or disk 24. This is marginally sur-
rounded by a reinforcing rim or annulus 26.
The normal shape of the diaphragm is slightly
conical and the inherent resilient properties
maintain the same in this condition. On the
reverse side the disk is provided with a central

 

outstanding stud and said stud is slitted or di-
vided as at 28 to define a pair of opposed semi-
circular gripping jaws 30—30 and an intervening
axial recess or socket for the head 20. Sub-
stantially triangular webs 32-32 are radially
integrated with the jaws and also with the out-
side face of the diaphragm. These webs
obviously serve to stabilize the jaws when the
latter are closed. The desired opening of said
jaws is accomplished merely by exerting force
against the central portion 34 of said diaphragm.
It follows that when the two units 14 and 22 are
coupled separately the jaws are normally closed
and frictionally engage and retain the head 20in
place. When it is desired to remove the button
assembly finger pressure is exerted against the
spot 34 and the rigid rim 26 is held between the
first and second fingers. It is obvious that this
pressure serves to flatten or straighten or cor-
respondingly flex the responsive diaphragm
whereupon the jaws spread apart and permit
the head 20 to be readily withdrawn. It is, of

course, actually possible to forcibly pull the
two units apart, if desired.

Exhibit 8

20

LAUNDRY ACCESSORY

 

The disclosure of exhibit 7 (8) shows a
three part fastener. The first (lower
member in the drawing of exhibit 7) has a
rigid bulbous projecting fastener part;
the second, or intermediate member hav-
ing both a socket with a resilient spring
to surround and hold the projecting fast-
ener part of the first member, and arigid
projecting fastener part extending oppo-
site the socket; and a third member hav-
ing a socket with a resilient spring to sur-
round the projecting fastener part of the
intermediate member.

The disclosure of exhibit 8 (9) is a
removable garment button. The button
has a rigid bulbous projecting member,
which has a conical point. This patent
was probably cited to anticipate the dis-
closure contained in the specification
in paragraph 14, third sentence.

The disclosure of exhibit 9 (10) is an
accessory for use in a laundry or an-
alogous process. It consists of a unitary
member having a funnel-shaped opening
with a bulbous socket at the bottom, a
flat plate section of smaller diameter
than the exterior of the funnel, surmount-
ing the exterior of the socket, and a bul-
bous projection extending from the plate,
all in axial alignment. A series of pieces
of material to be laundered, each having
an opening such as a buttonhole, may have

 
   
       

 
  

AR rrr
ZZ
is ig,

pt

  

one of these members inserted in the open-
Ing with the material around the hole
aranged between the plate and the exteri-
or of the funnel. By snapping the mem-
bers together with the projection of one
member inserted in the socket of another,
the series of pieces are held together in
alignment.

The disclosure of exhibit 10 (11) is a
two-piece ornament with a bulbous pro-
jecting member on a plate, and a separa-
ble flowerlike and funnel-shaped member
with an opening at the smaller end of the
funnel, which snaps over the projecting
member. Different funnel-shaped mem-
bers may be used with the same project-
ing member.

The examiner also searched class 59,
CHAIN, STAPLE AND HORSESHOE
MAKING, subclass 2, for the making of
bead-type chains, and subclass 80 for
ornamental chain structures; class 63,
JEWELRY, subclasses3 to 5, inclusive,
for chain type, expansible type, and other
type bracelets; and additionally consulted
with the examiners in charge of the DE-
SIGN PATENT CLASSES. Althoughthese
subclasses are clearly pertinent, no
references were found in any of these
places which were more helpful than
those already found.

Exhibit 9

21


IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO OR

 

This invention relates to ornamental articles
intended for adorning garments subjected to
laundering, cleaning or pressing from time to
time, and it is possible that an ornamental
article may be damaged in such operations.
Moreover, it is sometimes desirable to change
an ornamental article for one of a different
shape or colour.

An ornamental article according to the present
invention comprises a base intended to be se-
cured to the garment in a permanent manner,
and an ornament mounted on the base in a de-
tachable manner.

Conveniently a part of a press-stud fastener
may constitute the base of the article, theorna-
ment being formed to engage this part. There
may be a projection with an enlarged end ex-
tending from the base, the other part of the
article being formed with a hole or recess which
will snap over this enlargement.

PP —— TT

NAMENTAL ARTICLES

 

The projection may be arranged to extend and
appear through a hole in the ornament.

It will be understood that both the base and the
ornament may have many different forms, but
in one particular form of article the male part
of a standard press-stud fastener forms the
base, and the ornament is formed from a brightly
coloured moulded plastic material to simulate
the petals of a flower. The projection of the
press-stud extends and appears through a hole
in the centre of the ornament to represent the
centre part of the flower, the hole in the orna-
ment being only just big enough to snap over
the projection. When the garment is tobe washed
or cleaned the ornament may be removed so
that it will not be damaged during the washing
or cleaning operation, the base, which is less
likely to come to harm, remaining on the gar-
ment during this operation.

Exhibit 10

 

The Examiner's Action

After having completed his search, and
having come to a conclusion as to the pat-
entability of each of the claims, the ex-
aminer sent a letter to the applicant, citing
the pertinent references. He rejected
those claims which he belived to be un-
patentable and pointed out how he con-
sidered the references to be anticipatory.
Had he found any claims which, in his
judgment, were patentable, he would have
allowed them at this time.

The initial action of the examiner re-
jected each of the claims on the dis-

closures of the patents of exhibits 3-10,
and stated in part:

each . . . shows a uniting of two or more bead-
like or ornamental elements by means of a
projection, which may or may not be integral
with said elements, and a corresponding socket.
More specifically . . . (exhibit 7),lemploys a set
of three or more colored studs or ornaments
which are designed to snap-fasteninto . . . (one
another). . . . (exhibit 3) makes a decorative
chain of ornamental units designed to snap-
fasten together. . . . (exhibit 4) shows a rub-
ber dowel pin 14 . . . for uniting members 5.
Though . . . (exhibit 8) or . . . (exhibit 10)

shows only two plastic ornaments, it would be

22

mere duplication to employ more than two “5
(exhibit 5) . . . (exhibit 6) and . . . (exhibit 9)
ghow more than two units united together by ball
and socket arrangement. Attention is drawn to
the leg portion . . . in . . . (exhibit |S) where
there is shown a series of more ‘than two
plastic ornaments having ball and socket meang
of uniting 80 as to permit resilient connection
with a slight degree of movement as is present
in the claimed structure. The plastic used in
. . . (exhibit 4, 5, 8, and 10) is believed to be
equivalent to the polyethylene herein claimed.
Restricting the intended use to a beaded chain
is not sufficient to impart patentability to an
otherwise old and well known structure.

. . . (exhibit 2) is cited to show that it is old
to provide hollow members of two parts as de-
scribed in Fig. 5 of applicant’s drawing (ex-

hibit 1) (Matter in parentheses added.)

The essence of patentability of a claim
most often is found, in the first instance,
in the interrelational combinations re-
cited in the claim, rather than in the spe-
cific details of the elements which are in-
terrelated. Once this interrelational com-
bination is found in one reference, de-
tails of equivalent elements in other ref-
erences may be cited to show equivalency
if they are both (1) similar to those
being claimed, and (2) used analogously

‘to the equivalent elements found in the

interrelation combination.

It will be noted here that exhibits 5,
6, and 9 particularly cited by the examiner,
as well as 3, 4, and 7, show the inter-
relational combination of a plurality of
separable, connectable, and interchange-
able devices, which was required by the
form of the claims, as presented. Once
this basic interrelational combination was
found, details from other references were
then used jointly with it to show the more
specific details recited in the claims. This
was done because the examiner came to
a legal conclusion that the doll limb of
exhibit 5, the game of exhibit 6, etc,
Were fair anticipations of the interrela-
tional combinations as then claimed by the
applicant, and that the joint structures of
references were not only used analogously
In the application and the patents (and
hence were equivalents), but met the terms
of the claims as then presented.

23

It should be made cle
claims are rejected becaus
Sher (1) by a plurality of disclosures
» Ch, together, show an invention to be

[Bosemicble, or (2) less frequently, by a
8 ngle reference disclosing an analogous
teaching. Relatively few claims are re-
jected on identical disclosures.

ar that many
e they are met

The Applicant's Response

The applicant revised his original judg-
ment as to the scope of his inventions after
Studying the cited references. Art that
time, he could have resubmitted his claims,
amended them, or presented new claims
for reconsideration by the examiner.

The applicant, however, responded to
the various rejections made by the ex-
aminer during the prosecution of the ap-
plication by presenting six new, carefully
redrawn claims, each of which more
specifically pointed out and emphasized
the differences in structure between his
application and the references, i.e., the
details of structure and the interrelational
concepts which were not in the references.
In particular, he emphasized the uninter-
rupted socket entrance surface, the head
of the projecting member larger than the
entrance opening but smaller than the in-
terior of the socket, and. the neck of the
projecting member smaller than the en-
trance opening, allowing a limited ball
and socket action.

Allowance of the Application

In his last response to the examiner,
the applicant pointed out, inter alia, that:

The new claims bring out the structure by
which the loose and flexible connection is ob-
tained between the beads. Such structure, is
not shown in the prior art and it is by means
of such structure that applicant is enabled to
obtain the same effect as that obtained with a
necklace in which the beads areheldona string.

The six claims then pending were then
allowed by the examiner, since, in his
opinion, the. differences in structure be-
tween the application and the references
permitted a difference in result in the


claimed interrelational combination, a
result not possible with the structure
of the joints of the references.

These claims were:

1. In a stringless necklace, a chain comprising
a plurality of at least four bead members formed
of resilient synthetic plastic material having the
resilient properties of polyethylene, each pair
of adjacent bead members being connected to
each other by a ball and socket joint, a first of
each pair of said adjacent bead members having
an extension in the form of a neck extending from
a surface thereof facing the other adjacent bead
member, said neck having a head adjacent the
outer end thereof, the facing surface of said other
adjacent bead member having a socket opening
for detachably receiving and retaining the head
of the first bead member, said socket opening
including a mouth which is of smaller cross
sectional area than the interior portion of said
socket opening, said head being larger in cross
sectional area than the mouth of said socket
opening whereby such head will not ordinarily
pass through the mouth of a socket opening but
due to the resilience of said plastic material
may be forced therethrough with a snap action
to provide a relatively secure but easily dis-
connected junction between adjacent beads, said
head being smaller than the interior portion of
said socket opening and the neck on said bead
member in the region adjacent the head being
smaller in cross sectional area than said mouth
whereby to provide for freedom of play of the
neck in the socket opening and flexibility in the
junction between each pair of adjacent bead mem-
bers.

2. In astringless necklace, a chain comprising
a plurality of at least four bead members formed
of resilient synthetic plastic material having the
resilient properties of polyethylene, each pair of
adjacent bead members being connected to each
other by a ball and socket joint, a first of each
pair of said adjacent bead members having an
extension in the form of a neck extending from a
surface thereof facing the other adjacent bead
member, said neck having a head adjacent the
outer end thereof, the facing surface of said
other adjacent bead member having a socket
opening for detachably receiving and retaining
the head of the first bead member, said socket
opening including a mouth which is of smaller
cross-sectional area than the interior portion
of said socket opening, said head being larger in
cross sectional area than he mouth of the said
socket opening whereby such head will not
ordinarily pass through the mouth of a socket
opening but due to the resilience of said plastic
material may be forced therethrough with a snap

24

 

action to provide a relatively secure but easily
disconnected junction between adjacent beads,
said head being smaller than the interior portion
of said socket opening and the neck on said bead
member in the region adjacent the head being
smaller in cross sectional area than said mouth
whereby to provide for freedom of play of the
neck in the socket opening and flexibility in the
junction between each pair of adjacent bead mem-
bers the said mouth being spaced inwardly of the
external surface of said other bead member and
being connected to said external surface by an
inwardly converging passage to facilitate as-
sembly of the bead members.

3. In a stringless necklace, a chain compris-
ing a plurality of at least four bead members
formed of resilient synthetic plastic material
having the resilient properties of polyethylene,
each pair of adjacent bead members being con-
nected to each other by a ball and socket joint,
a first of each pair of said adjacent bead mem-
bers having an extension in the form of a neck
extending from a surface thereof facing the other
adjacent bead member, said neck having a head
adjacent the outer end thereof, the facing sur-
face of said other adjacent bead member having
a socket opening for detachably receiving and re-
taining the head of the first bead member, said
socket opening including a mouth which is of
smaller cross sectional area than the interior
portion of said socket opening, said head being
larger in cross sectional area than the mouth of
said socket opening whereby such head will not
ordinarily pass through the mouth of a socket
opening but due to the resilience of said plastic
material may be forced therethrough with a
snap action to provide a relatively secure but
easily disconnected junction between adjacent
beads, said head being smaller than the interior
portion of said socket opening and the neck on
said bead member in the region adjacent the head
being smaller in cross sectional area than said

mouth whereby to provide for freedom of play

of the neck in the socket opening and flexibility
in the junction between each pair of adjacent bead

members said beads being formed of polyethyl-
ene.

4. In astringless necklace, a chain comprising
a plurality of at least four bead members formed
of resilient synthetic plastic material having the
resilient properties of polyethylene, each pair of
adjacent bead members being connected to each
other by a ball and socket joint, a first of each
pair of said adjacent bead members having an
extension in the form of a neck extending from a
surface thereof facing the other adjacent bead
member, said neck having a head adjacent the
outer end thereof, the facing surface of said
other adjacent bead member having a socket

 

ning for detachably receiving and retain;

Op re of the first bead member, gaiqg a
opening including a mouth which is of smajjer
Cross sectional area than the interior portion
of said socket opening, said head being larger in
cross sectional area than the mouth of said socket
opening whereby such head will not ordinarily
pass through the -mouth of a socket opening but
due to the resilience of said plastic materia] may
be forced therethrough with a snap action to pro-
vide a relatively secure but easily disconnected
junction between adjacent beads, said head being
smaller than the interior portion of said socket
opening and the neck on said bead member in the
region adjacent the head being smaller in Cross
sectional area than said mouth whereby to pro-
vide for freedom of play of the neck in the socket
opening and flexibility in the junction between
each pair of adjacent bead members atleast one
of the bead members having at least two socket
openings therein.

5. In a stringless necklace, a chain compris-
ing a plurality of at least four bead members
formed of resilient synthetic plastic material
having the resilient properties of polyethylene,
each pair of adjacent bead members being con-
nected to each other by a ball and socket joint,
a first of each pair of said adjacent bead mem-
bers having an extension in the form of a neck
extending from a surface thereof facing the other
adjacent bead member, said neck having a head
adjacent the outer end thereof, the facing surface
of said other adjacent bead member having a
socket opening for detachably receiving and re-
taining the head of the first bead member, said
socket opening including a mouth which is of
smaller cross sectional area than the interior
portion of said socket opening, said head being
larger in cross sectional area than the mouth
of said socket opening whereby such head will
not ordinarily pass through the mouth of a
socket opening but due to the resilience of said
Plastic material may be forced therethrough with
a 8nap action to provide a relatively secure but
easily disconnected junction between adjacent
beads, said head being smaller than the interior
portion of said socket opening and the neck on
Said bead member in the region adjacent the
head being smaller in cross sectional area than
Said mouth whereby to provide for freedom of
Play of the neck in the socket opening and flexi-
Oility in the junction between each pair of ad-
Jacent bead members at least one of said bead
Members comprising a plurality of bead ele-
ments integrally connected to each other, the
OPPosite ends of the last mentioned one bead
ener being connected to adjacent bead mem-

®Is by said ball and socket joints.

25

including a m

outh which is of smalle 3S
rc
Sectional area Pn

than the interior portion i
socket opening, said head being re ES
Sectional area than the mouth of said socket
opening whereby such head will not ordinarily
Pass through the mouth of a socket opening but
due to the resilience of said plastic material
may be forced therethrough with a snap action
to provide a relatively secure but easily discon-
nected junction between adjacent beads, said head
being smaller than the interior portion of said
socket opening and the neck on said bead member
in the region adjacent the head being smaller in
Cross sectional area than said mouth whereby
to provide for freedom of play of the neck in the
socket opening and flexibility in the junction be-
tween each pair of adjacent bead members said
bead members are made of polyethylene, the
heads of said extensions being of generally
spherical form, the said mouths of said socket
openings being spaced inwardly from the ex-
ternal surface of the bead member and being
connected to said external surface by an in-
wardly converging passage to facilitate assembly
of the beads.

Since this application was to become a
publication, it was necessary for the ex-
aminer to determine where, in his opin-
ion, the disclosures of this patent would
be helpful to future searchers. The pat-
ent was issued in the Ornamental Form
subclass along with exhibits 2 and 3 and a
copy was placed in each of the subclasses
which provides for molded plastic articles,
reptile figure toys, chain type joints, bead
chains, and chain-type bracelets. These
subclasses were chosen because the ex-
aminer considered the joint or the con-
catenation features of this new reference
would be pertinent in future searches in-
volving the features classified in these

subclasses.


————eeeemmmm———

 

 

Other Forms of Claims

All patent claims are not in the form
which was used by the inventor of the ap-
plication we have just analyzed. The Pat-
ent Law allows a great deal of freedom
in choice of how an applicant wishes to
express his alleged inventions. Hence,
in addition to claims of the type or form
here disclosed (i.e., a chain of beads),
other patent applications may present
claims: (1) to a static structure per Se,
e.g., a single bead, or a structural H-
beam; (2) to a mechanical movement
per se, or to an interrelational combina-
tion of such movements, e.g., an auto-
mobile change-speed gearing, or the com-
plete power-path including a clutch, gear-
ing, and differential; (3) to methods of mak-
ing things, e.g., molding beads by an in-
jection molding process; (4) to methods
of using something, e.g., a method of
operating a radar system to land an air-
plane in fog; (5) to an apparatus for
making something, e.g., an injection mold-
ing machine; (6) to a chemical compound,

‘or a composition comprising several in-

gredients, e.g., D.D.T. per se, or D.D.T.
disolved in kerosene for use as a spray;
etc.

Any of these types of claims may re-
quire the alternative use of some one
thing, e.g., a claim may require either
ethyl alcohol or benzene, but not both,
as alternative solvents in a composition
of matter. Any of these claims may also
require the absence of some particular
thing, e.g., the absence of water in a
composition of matter, or the absence of
heat in a forging process.

What Must Be Encoded

In order to mechanize the examiner’s
search, uniform coding systems will be
evolved, and the patents and publications
in the search files will be encoded ac-
cording to these systems.

The files of classified patents hold the
great bulk of all applied and theoretical
knowledge, both technical and scientific,

 

in a concentrated form. These files
constitute a main source of references
for the examiner. In certain fields,
e.g., chemistry, the nonpatent technical
literature may sometimes constitute the
most important source of references.
The examiner’s classified files are also
reinforced with copies of foreign patents,
and pertinent nonpatent literature refer-
ences. The examiner may also consult
nonpatent publications from other sources
and cite them, if pertinent.

All patentees are deemed, by law, to
have “dedicated to the public” all features
of their disclosures not claimed by them.
Hence, in encoding a patent for mechanical
search, all features of the disclosure,
whether claimed or not, might later form
the basis for the rejection of another ap-
plicant’s claim and must be encoded for
retrieval.

Every disclosure must be retrievable
from any aspect of its structure, use or
function, state of being, color, material
from which it is made, etc. In other
words, after the application which we have
analyzed had issued as a patent, if itwere
to be encoded for automatized searching,

there are hundreds of details of the dis-

closure which must be encoded. A few

of them which may not be immediately:

apparent are:

1. The composition (polyethylene) used
as a bead;

2. the two part bead structure of figure
S per se, and

3. the location of fastening means at
the poles of the bead when the
two part joint is at the equator;

4. the dumbbell shaped connector of
figure 4, with all its details;

S. the extra socket at right angles to
the axis of the other projecting
and socket fastener parts;

6. the use of such a joint in models
used to illustrate molecular
Structures (application paragraph
14, last sentence).

7. the elongation of the neck of the
Projecting fastener part (applica-
tion paragraph 13, last sentence).

 

 

8. the use of the same sized fag.
eners with different sized beads:
and

9. the use of different sized fasteners
for different sized beads; and

10. the disclosed modes of assembling
such beads in sets;

11. the use of multicolored beads;

12. the modified conic-spherical head
of the projecting fastener part;

13. a rigid structure of two spheres
connected by a cylindtical mem-
ber;

14. a socket with resilient edges; and

15. any other aspects which were found
to be dimensionally disclosed in
the drawing, or specifically re-
cited in the specification and
claims.

If the search on the bead application
were to be performed mechanically, then
each of the references which the examiner
cited would have had to be encoded in a
manner providing for retrieval of the
portions of the disclosures for which they
were cited.

Encoding Problems

Problems in encoding are often en-
tangled in semantics. The obvious con-

flict of synonomous terminology for the

same thing presents no real problem--
one synonym is chosen. However, we
might find one disclosure of a mechanism
which alternatively holds a shaft from
rotation or connects it to another rotat-
ing member and call it a clutch; a sec-
ond disclosure with an identical structure
will call it a brake; in a third disclosure
such a structure will be called a clutch-
brake combination; while a fourth and
completely different disclosure of a sheet
metal bending machine will also call the
disclosed machine a brake. In one of
these disclosures a clutch may be mis-
named a brake. Now, the essential sub-
combination structure of a clutch may be
used as a brake, and vice versa, but
when this structure is disclosed or claimed

 

 

» ’ IIs environment, i.e., in the inter-
ational combination of other structure
€ssary for its use, it is either a

Clutch or a brake, and must be encoded

for what it i
18, rather than w it 3
called. hat it is

In the same manner, if one member is
described as larger than a second, we
ri EL fo retrieve the second
he oe ain er we the first; if a heat-
: aD oop efore a rolling step in

gical process, we must be
able to retrieve a rolling step following a
heating step; etc.

The problem of a generic search must
be emphasized as essential in Patent Of-
fice searches. In the case of the appli-
Cation which we analyzed, the examiner
not only searched for beads or similar
elements with similar separable joints,
but he looked for all types of interchangea-
bly fastened, concatenatable elements.
When a search is being made for a num-
ber of different elements or aspects con-
currently, the coding system must be
such that the search for one of the elements
Or aspects can be broadened. For ex-
ample, a searcher looking for a desired
composition including ethyl alcohol as an
ingredient, must be able to find any al-
cohol as an ingredient in another compo-
sition which is identical except for the
alcohol, if ethyl alcohol has never been
disclosed with the other ingredients of the
desired composition. And, similarly, a
search which includes as an aspect, all
benzene compounds in a specified com-
position must retrieve phenol inthis same
composition.

A disclosure of a process of and/or
an apparatus for molding beads is clearly
a reference for a molded bead. A dis-
closure of spraying tomato plants with
nicotine for insecticidal purposes, and a
disclosure of the process of making an
insecticide from tobacco leaves, are both
references for the use of nicotine as an
insecticide.

In a like manner, the chemist searches
not only for the exact composition, but
for the equivalent or alternate ingredients
in equivalent compositions; the metal-


lurgist may look for equivalent or al-
ternate heating and/or working steps in a
process, or equivalent or alternate heat-
ing means in a furnace. And any mech-
anized system must be able to retrieve
those disclosures which show equivalence
as such, in some particular relation.

A patent claiming a rotary bearing
structure may disclose details of chem-
istry, of pressure molding and of lubri-
cation, all of which must be encoded for
retrieval.

Conclusions

It can thus be seen that the references
which must be retrieved through mech-
anized search are quite varied and dif-
ferent from those which would result
from a subject heading type of informa-
tion search. Although our concepts and
notions are often extremely broad in
scope, the interrelationships of their con-
ceptual parts are detailed and intimate,
while the particular characteristics of
each of these essential parts are neces-
sarily minutely present. And while these
categories of disclosure are seemingly
incompatible, they must be retrieved con-
currently.

Compounding (and perhaps confounding)
the problem, we must add the necessity
for generic and alternative searching
and many other requirements peculiar to
our problem.

Taken all together, the solution to these
problems will require:

1. Constructing, organizing and integrat-
ing a series of codes;

2. analyzing and encoding according to
these codes, at least 7 million dis-
closures in the Patent Office (each
with the large number of codes nec-
essary to set forth those features
of each disclosure for which some
searcher may later look); and

Ce

28

3. creating and designing methods of, and
apparatus for using, the precise and
intricate retrieval patterns required,

Concluding Notes

The isolation of a single specific dis-
closure for completely anticipating all
the claims of a patent application is a
rarity. Even then, an applicant may,
under certain circumstances, be allowed
to show that he can antedate a specific
publication, or some one Or more publi-
cations may otherwise be found not to be
properly usable in a specified instance.
It would appear, therefore, that no search
in any scheme of mechanized search (as
in the manual searching now used by the
examiners) can be considered complete or
sufficient for anticipating an application
claim, if that search does not cover all
the known pertinent art. Applying this
particularly to mechanization, this means
all encoded disclosures in storage.

The specific examples of problems in
mechanizing the examiner’s search, which
have been mentioned herein do not, by
any means, constitute the sum total of
those which exist, but are merely rep-
resentative of the many which occur.
Many of the technical specialties, such as
electronics and organic chemistry, have
other problems peculiar to their subjects
matter. But in fulfilling the legal and
constitutional obligation placed on the U. S.
Patent Office, none of these problems can
be ignored.

The many helpful and constructive com-
ments and suggestions from other mem-
bers of the staff which have been incor-
porated into the final draft of this paper,
and the counsel and advice of the Direc-
tor, who aided in the selection of the ma-

terial here incorporated, are gratefully
acknowledged.

References

. Report to the Secretary of Co

by the Advisory Comite
plication of Machines to Patent Of -
fice Operations; Dec. 22, 1954. 5 g
Department of Commerce, Washing.
ton 25, D. C.; $1; pp. 2 and 3. 8

2. U. S. Patent #2,714,269 to G. R. gS

6. U. S. Patent
verley;
1950; Pa

#2,662,335 to G. H. Cal-
Application date, Jan. 19
tented Dec. 15, 1953. :
. Great Britain, Patent #597,762 to N.

Ducat; filed
Feb. 5, io. uy 25, 1945; accepted

prt
~J

+ U. S. Patent #1,468,612 to E. S. John.

Charles; Application d 199 ali Application date, Oct. 4
1955; Patented Aug. 2 he Jan. 10, 1922; Patented Sept. 18, 1923 i

3. U.S. Patent 2,688,202 10 J.B. Onjel: piatent #2656578 to T. I.
Application date, July 8, 1952: par. ‘eX; Application date, June 21,
ented Sept. 7, 1954. °1; Patented Oct. 27, 1953.

4. U. S. Patent #1,797,968 toD. Sweeney: 10. Germany, Patent #520,0

: . . ? : ’ : ’ 27 . —
Siieivii > ov. 9, 02; Pe ert; Patented Aug, 9, 1929.

5 U. 6 Parent ¥2.8580.558 4 11. Great Britain, Patent #625,357 to Uni-

. U. oO. y O04, oR. H, versal Plastics, Ltd.; filed June 20,

McMurtrie; Application date, Aug 19
’ 47,
17, 1949; Patented Jan. 15, 1952. Tn > 5
— Yeo. D€pL.of Comm—DC— 1956

29


—————————————— tr ————— A — a ————

—— ———— rm  ——————————E—— Tp ——


