Extension of NSF 029110 Page 7
Enclosure B, continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercolmmmication.
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent canpariaon,
mg.) several single-accumlator computers with comon mry,and
the behavior of a computer with multi 1e aemlators. Some of
these properties can be simulat on a on by utilization of .
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence conver- '
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration.

Facilities:

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 704 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 15000
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpha—
betic printer, and punched caﬁ recorder as well as the 3 off-line
magnetic—tape-controlled printer, mgnetic-tape-controlled caﬁ‘
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 701‘ there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 40; Accounting Machine. The aggregate
macrgﬁe rental, in excess of 50,000 per month, will be donated
by . .

The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since. the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment. -

Personne - Su ervisomnd Administrative Personnel Associate
_____1 2 ..__.______________9_
witrLthe ngectz

Princi al Investi star to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director 0? the ﬁmputation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of’ computing equipment since the first
man differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936‘ "Methods of Operations Research' (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953. and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 1957,
and about a hundred Journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further biographic details
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project. -