Reprinted from Circurarion RESEARCH
Vol. ITI, No. 3 May 1955
Printed in U.S.A.

Editorial

Research in Electrocardiography

HE application of laws which govern

the flow of electric currents in tissues

to the excitation of heart muscle has
led to the discovery that many fundamental
principles of electrocardiography were clearly
formulated long before facilities to express
them by experimental means had become
available. Lately, the easy access to electro-
cardiographic instrumentation has occasion-
ally reversed the process of deductive reason-
ing. There 1s a tendency in electrocardiographic
research to adopt rules made to fit experi-
mental observations and to consider geometric
teaching devices as scientific proof. It should
be stressed that (a) the primary gathering of
experimental data, both from human subjects
and from animals, is a necessary prerequisite
to the advance of clinical electrocardiography,
and that (b) 1t is equally essential to engage in
the analysis of mathematical concepts for the
solution of practical problems. Both types of
research are necessary if empiricism is to be
replaced by scientific knowledge. The paper
by the Wilson school* on the precordial electro-
cardiogram may be cited as a classical example
of the first kind; Bayley’s paper® on certain
applications of modern electrocardiographic
theory, as an example of the second. In the
former, experimental information related to
clinical electrocardiography is presented with
a minimum amount of speculative background,
in the second, certain relevant aspects of theo-
retical physies are analyzed to formulate an

.
-

For to travel hopefully is a better thing than
to arrive, and the true success is to labor
R. L. Stevenson!

electrocardiographic theory using a minimum
of illustrative experiments.

The analysis of the form of the action cur-
rent of the heart has to consider three funda-
mental research areas, (a) the electrochemical
properties of the excitable cell and cell aggre-
gates which represent the source of the action
current, (b) the fluid volume conductor
properties of the thorax (a structure of ques-
tionable homogeneity) and (¢) the influence
of the boundary of the thorax (skin and
subcutaneous tissues) which defines the con-
ductor (b) as one of limited dimensions and
may, thereby, alter the distribution of elec-
trical currents at the body surface. Corre-
sponding to these three areas, three outstanding
contributions may be cited, all published
before 1890,'-* which offered a mathematical
treatment for these basic components of
electrocardiographic analysis. Knowledge of
their existence, if not a detailed study, should
be of importance to those interested in the
bioelectric phenomena of the heart.

THE ELECTROCHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF THE
[ExcrraBre CELL

A hypothesis advanced by Bernstein® as-
sumes that the source of bioelectric currents
1s located at the boundary between the inside
of the cell and its surroundings, and that this
boundary has the characteristics of a semi-
permeable membrane. Across the membrane
some 1ons pass freely, others are held back

Circulation Research, Volume 111, May 1955