>
>
-
-
’

&"‘

" S T

V‘,lagnet the signals sped into the machine
~ and, according to a preset circuit, they were
- routed to radio tubes, tapes, magnets, and a

thousand other parts of the giant electronic
"brain. 3

- human'task; a task that ordinarily takes at

o

- CONC SIGNK

_ stem. He pﬁshed‘ a butr.on
and the tz pe%esﬁnté spin.
- As the tape whirred under the plckup

 

100 ,000 multiplicatlons a second. ‘Univac
can print 600 lines of answers on paper every
minute complete with carbon copies. &

When such feats are compared with the
abilities of humans, it’s enough to give man
an inferiority complex. An IBM machine in
the @overnment’s vast social security head-
quarters in Baltimore is managed by f
dozen clerks; it does in 214, hours what
100 of them use to do in three 8-hour shifts.
The Univac-Larc will duplicate in 2 min-
utes the lifetime output of a man using a
good desk calculator. 2
_That is the drama of the computer revo-
lIution. It's the reason atomic scientists
at Oak Ridge can perform rapid ‘calcula-
tions previously not possible at all. The
machines are even computing the amount
cows should be fed to produce a maximum
quantity of milk. And right now Eastern
Airlines is installing a Univac that will store
information on a million seats for 3 months
ahead. It will arrange for 60,000 reserva-
tions a day.

Three minutes later, the machine’s auto-
matic typewriter started clicking. At high
speed it typed out four sentences. Those
four statements represented the gist of the
article. The machine had made an abstract.

HOW DOES IT DO IT?
How did the machine de this impossibly

least a half-hour of hard work by a skilled
abstractor? -Is the machine human? Is
there a mlidget hiding inside that does all
the work?

Far from it. The humanity of the ma-
chine was built into it by Dr. Luhn and his
many colleagues at I. B. M. Whatever think-
ing the machines did, the men did it in ad-
vance. But the machine has the capacity for
speeding up thought patterns by using radio
tubes that act with the speed of light.

[From Sclence News Letter for March 1, 1958]
" IDENTIFICATION BY EEG

Use of an eletronic computer to identify
individuals by their brain wave patterns was
described to the Blophysical Society meet-
ing in Cambridge, Mass. “The computer is
programed to describe numefically the
compplex wave forms found in electroenceph-
alograms or EEG's. t

Although it has long been recognized that
each person has his own brain wave signa-
ture, a characteristic EEG pattern that ap-
pears when he is awake and resting under
standard conditions, there has been no ex-
act or quantitative way of describing it.
Judgments of which characteristics of the
EEG wave form change significantly from
person to person have had to depend in the
past on the skill of experienced EEG tec -
nicians.

Now, in the study made by a team of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology scien-
tists, the Lincoln TX-O electronic computer
has been used to measure a number of the
characteristics of EEG wave forms and their
yariability. Primary attention was paid to
the behavior of “bursts of alpha activity,” as
they were defined by the computer program.

 

[From Science News Letter for June 7, 1958]
ELECTRONIC LIBRARIAN

An electronic librarian was described by
Dr. H. P. Luhn of the International Business
Machines Corp.

The business intelligence system, reported
to the conference of communication scien-
tists, would- be able to match documents to
readers.

Dr. Luhn envisions a centralized service
using a large-scale computing machine that
would combine information retrieval with
a notification service to the users of the
information.

In Dr. Luhn's system the potential user
would first write a description of his back-
ground and work. Thls would be analyzed
by machine to determine a profile of the
subjects in which the user would b
interested.

At the same time, documents fed into th
machine would also be analyzed and standard
abstracts prepared.

“The information analysis of each docu-
ment would then be matched by the machine
with the interest profile of each user,” Dr.
Luhn said.

The user would be given a selected list of
titles by the machine, if the machine's
matching showed that the user should re-
ceive the new information. From these titles
the user could then select abstracts and from
the abstracts, full papers that he would want
to read.

In the final step, the machlne would note
which documents the user selected and the
machine would revise the user’'s profile im-
mediately. In this way the machine would
always have an up-to-date picture of in-
terests of each of its users.

Direct requests\for information made by
the user could also be reflected in his profile.

[From the New York Times of May 27, 1958]
" (By Elizabeth M. Fowler)

The graduate of a liberal arts women'’s col-
lege often finds she needs a fast secretarial-
typing course as a job clincher. Now Vassar
College offers some of its mathematically in-
clined students a new job getter—unders,
graduate training in the use of electronic
computers.

For several years lndustry has been urglng
colleges to offer such courses. The one at
Vassar was proposed by Jane Johnson of the
college vocational bureau, who said:

“If math students could have a good
course in numerical analysis and some ori-
entation in programming [translating

~ mathematical problems into machine lan-
guage| for electronic computers, students
would then have instant value upon gradua-
tion.”

The course was begun quietly and when
it proved successful was repeated this semes-
ter. The International-Business Machines
Corp., which operates a plant in Vassar’s home
town of Poughkeepsie, N. Y. provides a
model 650 computer (a magnetic drum data-
processing machine) and donates the services
of Dr. Fred P. Brooks, a graduate of Duke
University and a Harvard doctor of phi=-
losophy, to lecture three times a week. Cata-
loged as Mathematics 385b (Principles of
Digital Computation), the course carries 8
hours of credit for the semester. Texts are
Introduction to Numerical Analysis by
Francis B. Hildebrand and Digital Computer
Programming by D. D. McCracken.

 

[From Pageant for March 1958]
ELECTRONIC BRAINS MEAN JOBsS FOR YOU
(By Harold Mehling)

“Competition is keen right now for spe-
cialists who can make the computers work
faster,” says Edmund Berkeley, publisher of
the periodical Computers and Automation.
The most conservative estimate holds that
+ 100,000 men and women will be ministering
to computers within 10 years. Other esti-
mates run as high as 180,000.

Today’'s outpouring of electronic com-
puters represents the Iastest technical revo-
lution in history.

* * * * *

The Univac-Larc, which the United States
Census Bureau will use in 1960, will do over

' 'CORD 'AFPENDIX

‘which about 40 companies are competing.

  

    
  

   
  
   
       
     
     
   
   
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

S
L LA
?;.-..Q..:,mn.,;

s v ) B 4
vy o BT Y e e

      

“The important thing from the students'
viewpoint,” Dr. Brooks sald, “Is that this is
a branch of mathematics not included in the =~ =
curriculum but very important for the ap-x 27 N
plication of the advanced ma.thematlclan. ,
whether he or she uses a computer, desk s
calculator or pen and pencll A0 | i
[From the New York World-Telegram & Sun .

of June 4, 1958] T

ELECTRONIC BRAINS CALL FOR BIG 'I‘Umon. -‘f-'. -:
(By Charles M. Sievert) W

Growth: It takes a big tuition, as Minne-
apolis Honeywells president, Paul B. Wish-
art, puts it, to get into the manufacture o
data processlng machines, but it's a promis- . 4
ing field for corporate growth and this plo~
neer in automatic control is in it to stay.

Latest marvel in its electronic brain de-
velopment is the Orthotronic Control and
this system monitors the Datamatic 1000, =
which can read 8,000 words a second, agalnst ko
errors. Something like cops watching cops.

An Annapolis graduate, Paul Wishart ad-
mits that his company has plunged, not
waded, into- electronic brain field, but he/
says Minneapolis ‘Honeywell will digest the
huge chunk it now has in research and de- =
velopment without putting more into brick R
and mortar for the present. '

‘As' with other promising fields of manu-
facture in postwar year, such as television
and air conditioning, Paul admits that the
computer and bookkeeping robots have at-
tracted many. But the fiield is crowded in
the low-price ($50,000-$75,000) bracket in

L g Ry L T

.n:f;d- S‘l

RS

A AL
e

] -'l'}'-t-, 1Y

The high-price bracket, such as the $2.5 °
million processing machinery being readied
for our Tredsury Department by Honeywell's
Datamatic division, apparently is wide open
for the ambitious. This is'the area requiring
the big tuition, meaning milllons for just
research and development,

 

Aviation Safety

EXTENSION OF REMARKS

OF . e

HON. A. S. MIKE MONRONEY

OF OKLAHOMA ]
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES o
Monday, June 9, 1958 - B

Mr. MONRONEY. Mr. President, the
Nation’s attention recently has been
focused on air safety and the fact that
our present law is not adequate for the SRt
jet age. Mr. Scott Sutton, a newscaster S
for WTOP, did an excellent job of pulling
together in a brief broadcast of less than
5 minutes the problem, with details of re-
cent crashes, and an explanation of the
types of air traffic control now in use :
along with an exposition of the bill, S.

3880, which 32 of my colleagues joined

me in cosponsoring. As an example of

good radio reporting, I commend it to my =5
colleagues and ask unanimous consent to Dl
have it printed in the Appendix of the e
RECORD,

There being no objection, the broad-
cast was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD. <

(See exhibit A.) ' §

Mr. MONRONEY. Mr. President, re- |
cently I spoke at a meeting of the Avia=

tion Writers’ Association at Houston, ‘

Tex. Another speaker was Jerome
Lederer, director of the Flight Safety -
Foundation, Inc., and Cornell-Guggen-
heim Aviation Safety Center, who was,