92 TJournal of The American Ceramic Society—McQuarrie

80

THERMAL RESISTIVITY (1/k)
S 3

N
Qo

05 500 1000 1500 2000

TEMPERATURE (°K.)

Fig. 4. Thermal resistivity of alumina.

Il. Empirical Results

In developing an empirical expression for the variation of
conductivity with temperature, it is instructive to construct a
plot of thermal resistivity (reciprocal of thermal conductivity)
versus temperature. Such a plot for alumina is shown in Fig.
4. For the greater part of the temperature range, the values
lie roughly along a straight line. This line, however, does
not pass through the origin but reaches zero at about 125°K.
This means that the equation for the thermal conductivity
cannot be of the form 1/7 but must be of the form 1/(T—
T,), where the temperatures are in the absolute scale and T
has a value of about 125°K.

Figure 5 is a similar plot of thermal resistivity vs. tempera-
ture for magnesia. It can be seen that although the experi-
mental values again lie roughly along a straight line, they are
not so close as in the case of alumina. However, the maxi-
mum departure from the line (except at the highest tempera-
tures) isnot more than 109%,, which is probably within the limits
of experimental error.

The plot of thermal resistivity vs. temperature for beryllia
(Fig. 6) shows that this material exhibits a very decided de-
parture from the linear relationship at the lower temperatures
(below about 1000°C). However, the linear relation is rea-
sonably followed in the temperature range 1000° to 1500°C.
In view of the abnormally high conductivity (for ceramic
materials) of beryllia, this anomalous behavior at the lower
temperatures is not surprising.

All three materials show a very sharp departure from the
1/(T" — T,) relation at the highest temperatures. The em-
pirical expression will need a second term which becomes ap-
preciable at temperatures above 1000°C. and expresses this
departure from the 1 /(T — T,) relationship. At first sight, it
might seem that the departures from the 1/(T" — TY) law are
very different for the three materials, but an examination
of the results on the same scale (see Fig. 3) indicates that the
departures are of about the same order of magnitude. This is
confirmed by Fig. 7, which is a log-log plot of the departures
from the 1/(T" — T,) law (Ak) versus temperature. This
shows that (within the experimental error) the same second
term 1s valid for each material.

The linear relation on the log-log plot suggests a second
term of the form

Ak = BTI* (] )

T = absolute temperature.
B and n = constants whose values (determined from the log-log
plot) are 8.5 X 107% and 10, respectively.

  
  
  
      

I —— T :

Vol. 37, No. 2

60

40

THERMAL RESISTIVITY (1/k)

  

05 500 1000 1500 2000

TEMPERATURE (°K)

Fig. 5. Thermal resistivity of magnesia.

Thus the final empirical expression is
k= AT — 125)/+ 85 X 10-%7™* (2)

where the constant A takes the values 16.2, 18.8, and 55.4 for
alumina, magnesia, and beryllia, respectively, and the expres-
sion is valid from room temperature to 1800°C. for alumina
and magnesia, and from 1000° to 1800°C. for beryllia.

lll. Comparison with Physical Theory

A review of various theories of thermal conductivity of
crystalline ceramic materials is included in the Appendix of
this paper (see p. 95).  All theories predict a falling con-
ductivity with increasing temperature in the temperature
range of thisinvestigation (from room temperature to 1300 S
or above one-third of the Debye temperature, which is the
important parameter in theories of thermal conductivity).
All the theories predict a 1/7 relationship or something close
to it. In particular none of the theories predicts (as has been
erroneously reported in the literature') a minimum of thermal
conductivity at any temperature.

Although it would seem that these results definitely do not
follow a 1/7 relationship and thus do not confirm any of the
theories predicting this relationship, more accurate work and
particularly work at temperatures below room temperature
(where the theories show very marked differences) 1s needed
before a final critical evaluation of the theories can be made.
Therefore it is thought best not to tie the results of this in-
vestigation to any one theory, but to let them stand as em-
pirically expressed above. -

(It should be noted that all the theories except one (Endo’s)
require a knowledge of the conductivity at some temperature
for the valuation of one or more constants and therefore only
relative values or the shape of the conductivity-temperature
curve are predicted. In the case of Endo’s theory, there is 0
much latitude in the evaluation of the constants that a com-
parison of absolute values is nearly meaningless.)

IV. Apparent Conductivity at High Temperatures

3&5 noted above, none of the present theories of conductivity
predicts a minimum of conductivity at any temperalure,
yet that is exactly what was found in this investigation. In
this section the author attempts to establish a theoretical

- ' W. J-”Knupp, “Thermal Conductivity of Nonmetallic Single
Crystals,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 26 [2] 48-55 (1943).

 

 

February 1954 (Part II)

35

30

~n n
o w

o

THERMAL RESISTIVITY (1/k)

0 500 1000 1500

TEMPERATURE (*K) c000

Fig. 6. Thermal resistivity of beryllia.

basis for this rising conductivity at the higher temperatures
on the assumption that it 1s due to the transmission of radiant
energy through the slightly translucent specimens. In con-
sidering the effect of radiation passing through the specimen,
a term (or terms) representing the passage of radiant energy
(b, = the true thermal conductivity) must be added to the
fundamental conductivity equation:

dt
Jei— —ky (i—t (3)

Consider a square centimeter of a plane slab of thickness a
(Fig. 8) bounded by opaque material of temperature T on the
inner face and 7', on the outer face. (In general T; will be
higher than T, the temperature of the inner surface of the
slab, and 7', will be lower than T because of the interfacial
thermal resistance.)

The radiant energv passing through a square centimeter of
area normal to the line of heat flow at a point x will be made up
f’f all the energy originating somewhere to the left of x which
1sabsorbed somewhere to the right of x.

Mathematically, this energy must be written as four sepa-
rate expressions: (a) that for the radiation originating be-
tween x = () and x and absorbed between x and x = a; (b)
that for the radiation originating in the inner material and
gbsorhcd between v and x = a; (¢) that for radiation originat-
ing between x = () and x and absorbed by the outer material
and (d) that for the radiation from the inner material ab-
Sox:bcd by the outer.

[he mathematical expressions are

qi = S ST (TR T, ~ %Y 1 a2dyds (4a)

@ = [0 (Tt — T,)e % "ady (4b)
(l:i = \/"‘\I (f{ ‘1"_' ' — €y Tu‘l ,)" = a(a s +:)(i:' ( 4()
Qi = o1 — e1,')e—ad (4(1 )

radiation constant.
dppropriate emissivity.
absorption coefficient of material.

R ma

—_
=

—

=
—
—_

The total radiant energy (g,) passing through 1 sq. ¢l of

¢ material is given by the sum of the equations (4), and the

‘otal heat flow through the body by the sum of equations (3)
and (4), i =

In general, the integrals involved cannot be evaluated since

1€ value of the tmn;;crumrc as a function of x is not known.

 

Thermal Conductivity, VIJ

  
     

93

.01

     

AK (col. sec:' SC:
o
3

g

0001 .
1250 1350 1460 1575 1700 1840 1990 2150
TEMPERATURE (°x)

Fig. 7. Departure of thermal conductivities from basic 1/(T — T;) law.

 

Fig. 8. Cross section of plane slab with both radiant and conductive
transfer of heat.

However, if it 18 assumed that the temperature varies linearly
between Ty and T and that the difference of the fourth
powers can be replaced by the expression 47,'AT (where 77 1s
the temperature at x and AT'is the difference between the two
temperatures involved), equations (4) can be integrated.
This will give an expression for the radiant-heat passage as
rigorous as the assumptions made, but it is extremely unwieldy
since it has a greatl number of terms.

By making a further assumption which is probably as valid
as the one concerning the temperature func.ti(,m. a very simple
expression for the radia_nt-cx.lergy passage 1S obtame.d. It 1s
assumed that the slab is thick enough, the absorption coef-
ficient large enough, and point x far enough from the bound-