—

 

 

be
5 A string of beads or e dimensions, the
beads of different :
formed of be being graded in
. beads and sockets v
connecting bea < rrang
size, each head being 1o a socket
’ me size bead and 1n :
socket on the sa aller size.
and/or the next sm
of the next larger 4 sockets need
f sizes of heads and 8
The number O : f beads
the number of sizes O
not be the same as hat two OF
- found, for example, tha
and it may be found, fficient for a
three sizes of sockets would be SutfiC1E® 1 be
ded beads. However, it wil
necklace of gra : heads and
ated that, when possible, the ne
sockets are most conveniently a
size. e
6 In an alternative arrangement of be?cll)se :;Sﬂéf
kind described are formed as a BE o ds ma
different dimensions, the cpnnectmg hea 2_ 1y
be arranged to fit only Into 'correspon mgby
sized sockets and special junction beads may bé
provided with heads and sockets of noncgzc-l
responding sizes. By thisarrangementagra
necklace may be built up with a number gf sets
of beads, possibly of graded sizes, hgvmg tl}e
same size heads and sockets and with tne vari-
ous sets of beads joined by the special junction
beads.
7 According to a further feature of the present
invention each bead may be formed of a number
of parts which are joined together, for example,
by being made in the form of two halves of a
hemisphere which are subsequently joined. This
construction has the advantage that it enables
hollow beads to be made, which is particularly
advantageous for larger size beads since it
saves material and enables a light-weight bead
to be made. This form of construction further-
more provides one means of making multi-
coloured beads since the various parts of the
bead may be made of different coloured ma-
terials.
8 The two halves of a bead formed as two hol-
loyz hemispheres may be made to join together
wuh. a snap action, for example by forming one
hemisphere with a portion, around the mouth
of reduced external diameter so as to fit in-
side the moutt} of the other hemisphere. The two
engaging hemispheres may be resiliently locked
by forming a number of recesses or a circum-
ferential groove on one of the mating surfaces
and corresponding projections or a circum-
ferential ridge on the other.
9 Another method of makin '

; : g multi-col
beads is by using a double mouldin s
A e gprocess. In

process the first mould may be a
to produce a bead havi Iranged

P ad having a number of rece
grooves which are filled in the second sses.or
stage. Alternatively, the firgt moul mouldmg
may be arranged to produce a ser(i):sdcl)lflg l?tage
areas, for exampl 2 Shaped

Pl€ star-shaped areas positioned

to lie on the outer surface of the
the final moulding and so appearing o
surface of the bead. :

10 Another form of multl-colgured appearane.
may be made by putting plastic materia] of t;e
or more different colours in the moulq j, su )
manner thatitisnot mixed homogeneously therg

by obtaining a streaky or mottled appea G
the surface of the beads.

11 The method of joining beads or similar bodie

described above is applicable to pendant orpy.
ments such as earrings. For some such ofna’
ments it may be desirable to provide bead;
with more than one socket whereby two or more
pendant beads or like bodies may be attacheq t,
one bead.

12 For use in a string of beads, it may be cgp.
venient to mould a plurality of beads together a5
a unit, the beads being joined by a flexible neck.
Such a unit would be provided with a neck apg
head at one end and a socket at the other end g
that a series of such units canbe joined together
or joined to individual beads to form a necklace
or the like.

13 A particular feature of the construction of
beads described above is that it permits of con-
siderable flexibility in the junction between the
beads. This flexibility may be obtained either
by flexibility of the neck or by the freedom of
play of the neck in the socket of the next bead.
Preferably the socket is formed with a conical
or similar opening to permit angular movement
of adjacent beads without the necessity of flex-
ing the neck. It may be found desirable in some
cases totaper the neck in order to permit greater
freedom of movement. Such taper need not
necessarily be a straight taper. It will be ap-
preciated also that the use of a long neck will
increase the flexibility of a necklace formed
from such beads.

14 It will be understood that modifications of the
above construction are possible without depart-
ing from the scope of the invention. For example,
instead of having a socket on one side and stem
on the other, each bead may be formed with w0
sockets, the beads being connected together by
means of separate double-headed stems OT .llnk
pieces. Furthermore, the inventionhas applica-
tions other than to ornamental beads; a modifie
form of this construction may be employed i
the production of models used tO illustraté
molecular structures. ¢
15 The following is a description of a number ¢
embodiments of the invention, reference b‘?’"g.
made to the accompanying drawings in ‘"h‘?dé
16 Figures 1 and 2 are respectively 3 e d
elevation and a sectional elevation of 2 bes
constructed according to the invention; .4
17 Figure 3 is a cross-section showing, Jf

moulq for
N the °Uter

together, a number of beads of the kind illus-
trated in Figures 1 and 2;

| 18 Figure 4 is a cross-section through a number

| of beads of an alternative construction;

| 19 Figure 5 is a cross-section through yeta fur-

| ther construction of bead;

| 20 Figure 6 is a cross-section illustrating a bead
adapted to receive a pendant ornament;
21 Figure 7 illustrates a construction of necklace
in which individual bead members have a number
of bead elements moulded integrally together,
and

\ 22 Figure 8 is a cross-section of a modified
form of the bead of Figures 1 and 2.
23 Referring to Figures 1 to 3, there is shown a
construction of bead necklace in which each
bead is formed as a solid substantially spherical
body 10 having projecting radially therefrom a
short and comparatively thin neck 11 carryinga
substantially spherical head 12. Diametrically
opposite the head 12 is a socket 13 which is en-
tered by way of a mouth 14 of slightly smaller
diameter than the head 12 of another bead which
is to be received in the socket. The mouth is
slightly below the surface of the main part of
the body 10 and is entered by way of a tapered
entry passage 15. These beads are made by
moulding resilient plastic material, such as
polyethylene. The resilience of the material
permits of the head 12 on one bead being forced
through the mouth 14 into the socket 13 of
another bead. The socket is made amply large
enough to accommodate the head 12. The head
can thus move in the socket. Since also there
is provided the tapered entry passage 15, the
construction allows angular movement between
the beads so as toprovide the requisite flexibili-
ty of a string of such beads. It will be seen that
the beads can be strung together without the
need of any conventional thread or cord and
that, moreover, the conventional clasp for
fastening a necklace can also be dispensed with
if desired. A necklace may be made up of a
number of identical beads but, as shown in Figure
3, the beads may be graded in size. Preferably

\ all the heads and sockets are made of the same
size but in a graded necklace it may be neces-
sary on the smaller beads to have smaller heads
and sockets. In such a case, the connecting
heads and sockets may be graded in size so that
each head will fit into a socket onthe same size
bead and into a socket of the nextlarger or .next
smaller size. Alternatively, the connecting
heads may be aranged only to fit into corre-
spondingly sized sockets and special junction

beads provided with heads and sockets of non-
corresponding sizes. _ .

21 The heads may be made spherical as described
above or may be conico-spherical in shape, that

is to say, the head is formed of a hemisphere
which at its diametral plane is joined to a cir-
cular cone, the conical part of the head being
arranged with its apexdirected outwardly facili-
tating the assembly of the beads. In this latter
case, the socket mouth may conveniently be
made circular with a diameter less than that of
the major axis of the head.

25 Figure 4 illustrates an alternative construc-
tion in which each bead 20 is provided with two
sockets 21, 22. The beads are joined by con-
necting links each formed by a stem 23 having
heads 24, 25 at the two ends thereof. It will be
readily apparent that it would also be possible to
use the beads 20 with beads having two heads
projecting from diametrically-opposite points.
26 For large beads it may be preferable to con-
struct the bead as a hollow member in order to
save material and enable the bead tobe of lighter
weight. Such a hollow bead may be constructed
as shown in Figure 5inwhich the bead is formed
of two separate moulded parts 31, 32 eachof sub-
stantially hemispherical form. The part 32 is
shown as having an inwardly-directed flange 33
which engages a recess 34 formed on the part
31. The resilience of the material permits the
two halves to be joined together with a snap
action. It will be appreciated that the flange 33
may not extend completely around the mouth of
the hemisphere and might consist only of a num-
ber of projecting lugs which engage correspond-
ing recesses in the part 31. The parts 31 and
32 are formed one with a head 35 and the other
with a socket 36 for connection to similar beads
as in the previously described embodiments.
For convenience of moulding, in the two-part
bead of Figure 5, the socket is formed by a
short passage which tapers inwardly from both
ends to have a throat through which a bead is
forced to pass into the hollow interior of the
bead. It will be appreciated that hollow beads
similar to Figure 5 might be made of more than
two parts and also that the various parts may be
made of different colours to form multi-coloured
beads.

o7 As shown in Figure 6, a bead 40 may be pro-
vided with a plurality of heads and/or sockets,
for example two sockets 41, 42 and a head 43 so
that it may be joined to three other bodies. Such
a bead will permit of a pendant ornament being
fixed on to a necklace or the like. It will, of
course, be appreciated that the heads and/or
sockets may be formed in any selected positions.
og As shown in Figure 7, a number of beads 44
may be formed as an integral unit joined by
necks 45. Such an arrangement may facilitate
the construction and assembly of a necklace by
reducing the number of units required to be
joined together. Each group of beads may be