Minutes of Meeting of Committee
- ‘ on
Machine methods of Computation

November 22, 1950

WEE mm: H. Feshbach, J. w. Forrester, Z. Kopal, C. Lin,
. P. M. Morse and E. Reissner

Morse explained that the official directive for the Com-
mittee had not yet been promulgated, but that it should be ex-
peCted in a short time. In the meantime, there were many ques-
tions which could be discussed and on which decisions would be
needed shortly. Several topics were brought up.

The first was the question of the supervision of various
graduate students. Four of these - Salzer, Hemm, Verzuh and
Dolansky (?) - have already completed their general doctor's
examination in the Electrical Engineering Department and are
ready to go on with thesis research. It was indicated that the
Electrical Engineering Department might ask this Committee to
suggest supervisory committees for these men. Three students -
Carrus, Fox and Booton - have not yet taken their general ex-
aminations. The Committee in this case might be asked to sug-
gest appropriate examination topics for this general examina-
tion. It was felt that such a general examination would be in
the nature of removing a few specialized subjects from either
the Electrical Engineering examination or the Mathematics ex—
amination, and adding some subjects more connected with com-
putation. In other words, it was felt that most of the students
should have a basic background of either Electrical Engineering
or Mathematics (or perhaps Physics), but that they would not
need to be examined on some Specialized brancnes (sucn as power
engineering), and that in its place would oe put some material
more appropriate for the machine computer. It was decided to
discuss this question of the examination in more detail at the
next meeting.

The question of courses to be offered at m.1.r. in this
subject was also discussed. It was felt better to postpone
detailed discussion of this point until the Committee had be~
come more clear on its opinion concerning the preliminary exe
amination. The question of a possible Summer Session on
Machine Computation was also brought up.

. ikﬂhrvund
Ph M. MorsefN
Chairman