COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Teghnology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

April 29, 1960

Memorandum to Users of the Computation Center:

We are pleazsed to announce that in July 1960 an IBM T09
 gomputer will replace the IBM 704 presently at the Center; —
furthermore, in January 1962 an IBM 7090 computer is scheduled to
replace the 709. These changes should represent appreciable increases
in machine capacity.

All of these computers are furnished free-of-charge and
maintained by the International Business Machines Corporation. As
in the present arrangement, cne shift of computer time will be
for the Cooperating New England Colleges and Universities, one
shift will be for MIT, and one shift will be retained for its own
use by the IBM Corporation.

The IBM 709 will have thirteen tape units on-line attached to
three input-output channels and a direct data entry device attached
to a fourth channel. Two of the channels and the direct data entry
device have been furnished specially for preparation of a time-
sharing system for the T090. (IBM has also granted additional
computer time to the Center for this project.) As with the 704,
the Cathode Ray Tube ocutput unit will be attached to the 709 but
there will be no magnetic drum storage or half-word logic. In other
respects the equipment will be the same as it is at present. It is
expected that installation of the 709 will require the entire month
of July.

The instructicn codes for the 704X a2nd 709 computers are guite-
gsimilar. The principal changes of the 700 are either extensions
and improvements or changes in the input-output logic. With the
exception of input-output instructions all 704 instructions will
operate correctly on the 709, so that most 704 programs will require
only minor modifications to work on the 709. The Center is preparing
for distribution shortly a further memorandum describing the
available 709 programming systems, appropriate manuals which can be
obtained from the Center, and advice on the conversion of old programs.
A meeting on these subjects for interested prograwmers is also planned
within the next month.

Sincerely,

Philfp ¥. Morse
Directol

PMM: RM