May 31, 1957
Mr, William Mackintosh
Aggsistant Pirector General Services
Room 24-204
“ol .T.

Dear Mr., Mackintosh:

In accordance with our telephone convergation on Monday, May 27,
i have prepared a ust of the telephone nmumbers and equipment which will be
regquired in the :ow wMiT Computation Ceater in the Rari 7. Compton mmmtoryo
This list incicates the room number, the desired phone ¢xtension, the name
of the individual, and a brief description of the egquipment required at each
site, I know that the deiailed comments on the equipment are not complete
@s shown on this list; however, 1 feel I can better discuss this with the
telephone people rather than trying to put it in a letter,

Ag I informed you, at the dresent tiwme in the Office of Statistical
Services we have a neuber of telephones and oxtensions which are charged to
the general administraties account, Sometime at your convenience I would
like to discues which of the telephones on the attached list might be simi-
larly billed or absorbed. On the other hand, however, I want to emphosize
that a number of the people listed in this area are at the present time lo~
cated at the Barta Building on the Whirlwind Project and the telephones which
these people are currently using are, of course, paid for by a DSR project
63456, Some similar arrangement will be made for people in the Computation
Center who are doing primarily research work. That is, their telephones
will be paid for from one of the accounts covering such research work,

Although if is not apparent from the attached iisting, I am expec~
ting to install a paging unit which will allow the receptionist in the Com~
putation Center to select and complete :calls without manual intervention,

The type of unit I am referring to is xnmown (in telephouc jargon) as circuit
SDE6604~01 We have such a circuit in the Barta Building at the present time.
In princip}@, this circuit will allow completion of incoming calls upon audible
indication from the receptioninst without need of a switch board operator,
Specifsmlly, lines 4111 - 4115 and (a similar number ten higher) 4121 - 4125
are used in a particular manner to effect this automatic paging action.
Again, I fedl I best discuss this with the equipment installation people
rather than trying to explain it in detail in this letter.

I would very much appreciate hearing from you in case there are
any questions on this (I am sure there will be). In the meantime, I would
like you to expedite this order in order that telephone equipment may be in-
stalled as soon as possible.

Sincerely yours,

¥F. M, Verzuh
/ Assistant Director
cC: po Mo HOX‘SG

Migs Morrice
C. E. Tucker |