MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
DIVISION OF SPONSORED RESEARCH
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASS.

January 21, 1958

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR DSR 7573

Professor P. M., Morse
Room 6-107
M.I. 7.

Dear Professor Morse:

Your attention is invited to the terminal date,
June 30, 1958, of N.S.F. Grant G2940, DSR 7573. If
you plan to continue this research, we recommend that
you prepare an extension proposal at an early date,

A lead time of six months or more is necessary
for many of our research project sponsors to insure

that we have a signed contract or amendment authorizing
continuation of the work.

Please refer to the attachment entitled "Procedure
for Establishing DSR Contracts" for information on re-
search projects handled by the D.S.R. We would be
pleased to offer additional advice and/or assistance in
the preparation of your proposal,

2 ours,

R. P., Webber
Assistant

RPW: tw

Encl.


MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

DIVISION OF SPONSORED RESEARCH
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASS.

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING D.S.R. CONTRACTS
a EE eS

The following procedures should be followed for a research program
which is to be covered by a D.S.R. contract:

1. Preliminary negotiations mey be carried on between a Faculty
member and a sponsor, but no proposals or commitments should

2. A proposal by & Faculty member for D.S.R. contract research
vith either govermment or industry aust first be approved by
the Head of the Depextment concerned, whe satisfies himself
that (a) the project is appropriste for the Dapartwent to
undertake as a part of its educational and research progrem;
(b) senior staff aye availsble and willing to supervise the
research; (c) adequate space and facilities aye available.
Proposals should include a budget based cn advice from the
D.S.R., office.

3. After departmental approval; the proposal should be submitted
to the appropriate Dean for endorsement. The Dean will also
determine the eppropriateness of the project in relation to
The entire Institute program of research.

If the proposal has an annual budget exceeding $35,000, the Dean's
approvel is guided by the decision of the Comuitiee on Sponsored Reseerch
acting within policies determined by the Executive Committee of the
Corporation. This Comittee on Sponsored Ressarch may also be asked to
&pprove projects affecting interests outside of the School im which the
proposal originates.

Project Supervisors must plan in edvance in order to allow sufficient
time for administrative review of all proposals.

L. After administrative approval, as outlined under item 3, the
proposal is sent by the Deen to the D.S.R. office. All contracts
are prepared by the D.S.R. and signed by sn offical of the
Institute approved by the Executive Commitise of the Corporation.
When negotiations have been caapleted, the D.S.R. office will
notify the Dean, Department Head, and the Project Supervisor.

9. Contract renewals or extensicns involving additional funds
also must be zpproved by the procedure cutlined above.


