TRIP REPORT

’ 5 ~— .
NE ————— . ;
* Sm ——,

~

Place Visited: ( Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts

Persons Seen: Prof. Guy Orcutt, Department of Economics; 4

Most of the meeting time was spent with Prof. Orcutt. Profi Dorffman
appeared only briefly. Prof. Orcutt is highly enthusiastic about the applica-
tion of computing machines to scientific problems in his and other fields. He
is a member of the governing board of the 650 installation which was recently
installed at Harvard in addition to his function as representative to the
MIT Computation Ceater for-Harvard: ovo —
Prof. Orcutt expressed some concern and dissatisfaction on two accounts,
One, he feels that the amount of red tape involved in getting problem approval
d carrying out reporting procedures on the progress of the problem is
J sive. KEspecially, when a problem is smal), involving very little machine
time and represents the initial effort of a person attempting to uee the machine.
His second point of concern was the failure of personnel from Harvard to get
results in,what he termed, a reasonable amount of time and effort. He felt
that was particularly due to unavailability of a competent technical advisor 5
at the Computation Center who had time to go over in detail with the represent-
atives from Harvard the various library programs and operating procedures
that are necessary parts of executing a program, The machinery for performe-
~ ing this function has been set-up. In planning the procedure, it was felt that
MIT would be able to train IBM Research Assistants and Associates from the
varbus colleges participating in the affairs of the Center and they in turn
would be the experts on their own respective campuses. However, apparently
this procedure has not worked to complete satisfaction at Harvard and perhaps
at other universities. Prof. Orcutt and I discussed a number of possible
remedies for the situation. I have in turn discussed this matter verbally with
both Prof. P. M, Marse and Dr. M. A. Shader. | |

These two questions and others will undoubtedly constitute 2 large portion of
the business meeting at the forthcoming November session of university
representatives from the various New England colleges.

J. F. Blackburn
iJctober 29, 1957
JFB/ieh
cc: Dr. M. A, Shader, ia
Mr. W. T. Hamlen, ridge
Prof. P. M. Morse, MIE
Prof. ¥. J. Corbato, MIT


