COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes of the Fifth Meeting
January 15, 1954

Persons Present: G. S. Brown, S. H. Caldwell, J. W. Forrester,
FP. Hildebrand, J. A. Hrones, C. C. Lin,
P. M, Morse, W. W. Seifert, F. M. Verzuh

The initial discussion concerned the form of the pro-
posed report on future plans for large computing machines in the
Institute. Morse asked Adams, Seifert, and Verzuh to work up a
preliminary draft on the present situation of the large machines
at the Institute, their budget, their distribution of effort |
(project work, class aids, educational research). This draft
should only be several pages in length. The Committee as a whole
can then modify it appropriately later.

Professor Gordon Brown of the Electrical Engineering
Department then talked on the future need for machines at the
Institute. He emphasized that machines should not be considered
just as other gadgets to be supported as such but that machines
should always be considered in connection with broad scientific
problems which the Institute feels it -should pursue. Caldwell
pointed out that there are three areas wherein machines are use-
ful at the Institute: :

(1) In helping classroom teaching in numerical
analysis and machine programming, |

(2) Educational research carried on by the faculty
and students; here the machine would be a service facility which
would make possible certain research otherwise not possible,

(3) Project research machines specifically to solve
large problems related to the general trends of the Institute's
work as discussed by Professor Brown.

The further discussion indicated that with regard to
(3) there should be no great difficulty in financi and that the
size and budget for equipment to satisfy (1) and 2) must be very
carefully looked into. |

The next meeting of the Machine Committee will be at
Eo p.Mm., Thursday, February li. Horse will endeavor to have
rofessor Draper present to continue This discussion.

   
 

1 Dt
Philit\ M. Borse
Chairman
PMM: JM


