Arendment No
(3/26/52)

Contract NSori-60, Task Order I

 

"(§) thecreticel studies end experimental research and development
in connection with the application of digital computers in an air
defense system im which information is transmitted to WHIRLWIND
wmmmmmmwmmr,uu
con&xcted&mingmrﬂdlmmxwﬂmm.

16
It io the desire of the Covermment end the Contractor that sdditional

research in applied mathemetics utilizing facilities in Contractor's
Center for Machinee Computation, including the WHIRLWIND computer,
mmmnmatbmmmnwuummmmm-
lems, be performed. To accomplish this, there are therby provided
wemmmnwmdpﬂmdmmrlwr
Contract NSori-60 and an increase in the estimated cost thersef,

Amendment Ho. 18

(11/15/52)

(4/16/53)

(6/30/55)

(&/20/56)

 

it is the desive of the Govermment and the Contractor that, dwring

utilizing
facintiel m the Contractor's Center for lhchine eavutatim, including
the WHIRIWIND computer, and the epplication of the facilities to
military and scientific problems, provision be made for an increase in

Amendment No. 19

It is the desive of the Covernment and the Contrector thet additionsl
research in gpplied mathematics utilizing facilities in the m 8
Center for Machine Computation, including the WHIRLWIND computer, and

the applieation of the rncil:ltiu to military and scientific problems,
be performed. To sccemplish this, there are hereby provided an ex-
tension in the period of performance and an increase in the sstimated
cost of Task Order I under Contract NSori.60.

ndwent No. 23

Since 1t is the desire of the Governpent snd the Contractor that the
research wnder Task Order I of Contract Sori-60 be contimued pending
the avallability of funds for additional research to be conducted, it
has been determined to extend the pericd of performance of said
Task Order.

Amendment NHo. 24

It is the desire of the Covernment and the Contractor that edditionsl

research in gpplied mathematics utdlizing facilities in the Contractor's

Center for Machine Computation, including the WHIRLWIND computer, and
the application of the facilitiea of military and scientific pmblmns »

be performed., To accomplish this, there are heveby provided an exe-

tension in the period of performance and an increase in the estimated
cost of Thsk Order I under Contract NSori-60.