Memo Page 2.

unless many users can use the machine at virtually the same
time, i. e. the machine is time shared.

What we are studying then is a system comprised of a
large capacity computer with specialized remote input-output
devices plus additional hardware and an overall programming
system. The function of this programming system would be,
in effect, to divide up the large machine into what would ap-
pear to each of many remote users as his own machine, with
almost the complete capability of the larger machine, but
running at a slower speed. The problems of equitably shar-
ing the total machine time, prorated among the various users,
accounting for their usage, and shifting from program to pro-
gram would be decided by the overall programming system.

There are three classes of problems that are being ac-
Cively worked on by the Time-Sharing project. The first of
Chese 1s hardware, the second is the overall requirements of
the system, and the third is actually programming the system
for a particular mpachine.

The "Hardware" requirements mainly pertain to the gener-
al problem of communication between the user and the machine.
A person generally expresses his ideas by voice, or by draw-
ing or handwriting. He can also express himself (although)
not as readily) by using the keyboard of a typewriter. In
any event, the basic information rate necessary for a person
te communicate with the machine is low. As part of this pro-
Jjeet, input devices, that will allow the usage of handwritten
or sketched inputs are being actively studied. Typewriter
inputs, of course, are quite feasible as of today, and al-
ready have been tested on the 704 as will be described. Com-
munication, on the other hand, between machine and the human
is a more difficult and challenging problem. Information
can be presented to the user in the form of a printed or
typed page, a display on a device that 1is capable of plot-
ting, such as a scope, or perhaps, eventually, through

sound. Display devices such as a typewriter suffer from