rheeemberwiéﬂygﬁlgﬂb’éf‘ ‘ I

', Dr. ms. Mnlliken
.‘Departnent ofPhysies , »
The University of Chicago
Chicago 37. Illinois "

Dear Bob :7

. I believe Itold’you when I last saw you or our plans
to retire Whirlwind. alt you are not aware or them, they may ~
change your plans somewhat. We are getting a new ,computeryan'
IBHVTOM, some time this spring. It will be supported by IBM .
instead or by the Navy and therefore arrangements to have prob-
lems run on the machine will be different and will have to be
renegotiated. In fact, it is not certain that we are to be
allowed to do problems for any group outside of M.I.'l‘. and the
New England college family for which the machine is installed.
At the end or June 1957, therefore. we are relinquishing all
part in Whirlwind operation and will turn it back to the Navy
for whatever use they may decide. consequently, all work which ’ ,
is to be done on Whirlwind must be finished by the end or June.
1957. Any work in the future would have to be done on the 701i
and would be subject to different rules, probably more stringent
with regard to outside participation.

 

 

Part or our difficulty is that the Navy has finally
got tired of supporting Whirlwind; not that I blame them. for
it has been an expensive operation. Even for this spring they
are insisting that we get financial contribution from users.
The agreed-on rate is $250.00 per hour. In the case of hr.
Merryman, therefore, we can allow him the additional ten hours
you mention free, but any further use or Whirlwind would have
to be paid for at the regular rate. You mention that you had
about $8,000. This would pay for 32 additional hours on the
machine. Judging from your present rate of use, I doubt
whether you would use as much as 32 hours before the middle of
June. I hope. however, that you will get enought done so that
your work on reprogramming will not have been in vain.

Please let me know your thoughts on the changed
situation I have outlined above. V

Yours ,

Philip M. Morse
PMM: lwh

cc: Dr. Verzuh
Prof. Slater