&l

March 1957

REQUEST FOR SUFPPORT FROM THE OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
FOR_SUPPORT OF RESEARCH IN

- .,

DIGITAL COMPUTER METHODS_IN OPERATIONS RESEARCH

D e e -l s A .

Background

With the installation of the IBM TO4 in the new Computation
Center, it becomes possible to expand our basic work in Operations
Research in directions which will utilize the capabilities of this
new high-speed electronic computer. After consultation with
Dr. T. J. Killian and with Drs. J. Weyl, A. Grad and C. F. Mucken-
houpt of ONR, we herewith submit a proposal for a project in this
area, to be supervised by Prof. P. M. Morse, Director of the -
Computation Center, Dr. H. P. Gallliher, Assistant Director of the
MIT Operations Research project, and Prof. Dean N. Arden, Head of
the Programming Research Section of the Computation Center.

 

Proposal

A program of research is proposed in the areas of linear
programming and queulng theory, and particularly inteo methods of

'utilizing high-speed computation techniques in the solution of

certain problems in these areas. The purpose of the research is
to extend progress already made in these fields. 1Initial phases
of the research are described below. Experimental testing of .
methods developed will be made on the IBM TO4 now being made

ready at the new MIT Computation Center.

Nature of the Investigation

Work will be in the related fields of linear programming
and queuings:

Linear Programming. Research has already been initiated, and
shows promise, in the application of speecial approaches to the
computer solution of problems involving flow of one or more
commodities through capacitated networks which enable the come-
puter to take advantage of the special structure of specific
problems to shorten computation time.

Research will also be done on more efficient algorithms for
the solution of general linear programming problems. In particu-
lar the primal-dual method developed by the RAND Corporation is
currently belng programmed for the IBM 704 and possible exten-
sions of the method are being investigated.

The practical importance of the techniques will be tested
on scheduling and warehousing problems with or without uncertain
demands as well as dynamic scheduling and allocation problems.