" Mr. Robert Atkinson
Paqa 3 i
septombu 23, 13‘60' ,

 

i :!!reatmcnt of managomnt dwutan-mktrxg wohlom irom ovu'-an ‘
- gystem point of view. Study of behavior of firms and industries
by computer simulation of feed-back~type models representing
 organizational structure of firm and its basic policies and mzmn

. gr\teria. Zmphasis primarily on interaction between flows of '

~ information, money, materials, manpower, and capital oquipmnt. 4
. _ Application of system-~dynamics approach to study of various
. cwrrent problem areas in industry, including inventory control,
 pricing decisions, R and D management, cash flows, and consumer
- behavior. Instruction covering elementary feedback systems,
difference oquauens. nnd use of digital compuurs !or students’
own modoll. | |
Mr, E. B. Roberts

- 18, 581 mmmmu

Management doctsion-maldng treated from over-all system point of
- view; primary emphasis on interaction of separate elements of an
enterprise. Effecis of delays, smoothing, amplification, and noise
on flow of information and material. Dynamic models of production~
distribution systems simulated on a computer and their behavior -
‘studied, Background and application from curreni problem areas
in industry. Subject matter drawn from theories of elementary
feedback systems, difference equations, and probability; student
should have basic ability in these gubjects. Acquaintance with
computing machines also desirable. Provision of experience with
automatic programming for computer simulauon, opportunity to run
models on a machine.
Proiessor Jay W. mrreater

15,582 Industrial Dynami¢s II

Continuation of 15.581. Emphasis on techniques of model design,
construction, and testing., Noise: mathematical description and
techniques for generating correlated and uncorrelated noise. Change
in statistical nature of nolse on passing through system. Smooth~-
ing and prediction. Design of system to approximate desired
dynamic response. Testing dynamic models in nonlinear limits.
Discussion of additional models not covered in 15,581, Practice