NS F
Name énd hddress of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
s Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation
= and Utilization--Investigation into

the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
regearch; including studies of numerical analysis and machline pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, prccessing, analysis

and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems 1ln science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1050 to determine whether further support 1s advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organlzing what
should be one of the mos ruitful centers for research related to

the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM 1s contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part

of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT 1s contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical englneering,
physics, and industrial management. The wmachine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same baslis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated their interest In participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machline by students and staff of thelr institution.
IBM 1s providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with sowme of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facllities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in sclence, engineering,
and business., A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other collegee, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordlinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machline computation, and in specific applications of machine