-4-

survey aa-ple are re-interviewed in ancceaeive eta-Itha,‘l no that there are
record. on llhivao tape: which could reveal the labor toroe participation
of individule over tine. However, the “ﬂotation tor any aingle indi-
vidual ie aeattered on any tapea no that exteaaive and expenaive collating
would be required to collect the intonation into aaahle torn.

here 1! the oontinnoua worh hiatory aanle ot the m1; but
only M81 covered mlonent 1- recorded and the denographic and economic
characterizationa of. individuala are very ahatlthy.a

lone‘at lore pruning, but atlll hardly adequate tor our
purpoaee, 1a the buic data underlying the Inc atedy, Labor bhility in
air Citiee. 'lhia ooaaiata at interview with a probability aanle of Moo
wonen and I“: an. In order to quality an reapondaata, the individual-
had to be 25 or over in 1951, had to he at work in January of that year,
and had to have worked at leut one loath in the decade 1940 to 1.50.
The trouhle with thia data in threetold. In the “rat place, it in binned
becauae thou to rare not at work in January 1051 are excl-led. In the
aeooad place, rather few 0! the daeo‘raphic and econonic nharecteriatlca
that we are intereated in were recorded. And finally, there in no repre-
eentatioa of individuale living oataide of all of the lax-[eat letropolitan
arena. It would ne- then that the following atrong coneluaioe o! latte
and Stewart in still eaauntially valid; "aaay per-one enter and withdraw
iron the labor torca aeveral tinea during the courae of a liteti-...I'he
reqeiaite data (or invaatigating thin prohlo- are not available.“

Iere it not for the need to atudy the behavior of individual
decieioe-Iahin; unita, we night reet content with «tin-tin. the propor-
tional o! individuala of given oheraoteriatioe to are in the labor roroe
under given oircunetancee. hie, however, would neglect the rate of turnover
within cello true loath to Ioath and we know that there are eoeeiderahle
variatioaa in thin between cello. In the cane or one typee o! individuala,
Inch an adult Inlea, those who are in the labor toroe during any [iv-

1 Bee payee 15-18 or the attached paper tor a brief deaoriptioa of. the

current Population Garvey and lta liaitationa.

2 "The Continuoue Iorh liatory Balple Under Old-Age and hrvivora'
lnnurance”, Social Security Bulletin, Feb. 1944.

a latte, A. J. and amu- D. Htewart, lanEwer leaearoea and utilization,
p. 218.