-2

has come as well from the men interested in experimental techniques,
who spend their time trying to get more out of the cyclotrons they
have and building new and better cyclotrons, as from those who are
primarily interested in measuring nuclear cross sections and finding
new particles. Even in theoretical physics one needs the analysts,
who improve mathematical techniques, as well as the physicists
proper, who use the techniques to devise new theories. Research
into techniques does not usually have the glamour which research

on specific problems has, but in really new fields of lnvestigation
the basic techniques often must be worked out before the specific
problems can begin to be attacked.

Research into techniques of using digital computers is
particularly important now, for the potentialities of the new
machines are not well understood by others, who would be benefited
by its help. For this reason we are hoping to enlarge our program-
ming research group when the I.B.M., machine gets here, so that, in
addition to helping the problem-solvers program their computations,
the group can spend some time devising really new tricks. Some of
this research should be into the possibilities of devising new modi-
fications of input and output equipment so that, for example, the
results of some experiment can be fed directly into the machine for
detailed analysis, or so that the calculations performed by the
machine can be fed directly to a high-speed typesetter, in each
case eliminating one or more time-consuming and inaccurate human
interventions,

We are requesting NSF and ONR for help in developing
such techniques of particular use in adapting the computer to re-
search in the physical sciences. Some of the work proposed includes:

1. Devising, writing up, and correlating a library of
programs for solving standard problems, €o facilitate the use of
the machine by workers in the physical sclences.

2, Investigating basic programming logic, how 1t can be
expressed in mathematical terms and how much of it can be carried
out by the machine 1tself.

3, Development of input equipment and techniques which
can conneet the machine directly to the experiment, and output
equipment which can display results in a more concise and under-
standable form.

In this way the Computation Center can cooperate lin an
active way with the various groups, at M.I.T. and at other New
England colleges, which are carrying on research in the physical
sciences.