Reprinted from
“Proceedings of The New England Cardiovascular Society, 1957-58.

FURTHER STUDIES ON THE EFFECT OF THE INTRACARDIAC BLOOD
ON THE ELECTROCARDIOGRAM

C. V. NELSON, Ph.D.,* M. CHATTERJEE, M.D,, and E. T. ANGELAKOS, Ph.D.

From the Cardiac Research Laboratory, Maine Medical Center, Portland, Maine, and the Physiology Dept.,
Boston University Medical School, Boston, Mass.

In the theory of the electrocardiogram, the heart is
assumed to act like a current generator immersed in
a homogeneous conductive medium. The concept of a
homogeneous medium has been subject to criticism.
Many studies have been made, for example, of the pos-
sible effect of the lungs. Although published figures for
the electrical resistivity of the lungs vary widely, model
studies have shown that even if the lungs had a resis-
tivity four times that of the other tissues, the maximum
error in any surface potential would not be more than
20%. Another factor which might invalidate the homo-
geneous medium idea is the presence of the blood in the
heart chambers. The electrical resistivity of whole blood
is much lower than that of muscle and other thorax
tissues. According to Schwan and Kay,! the ratio is
only 1/10. This ratio is considerably lower than that
reported by other workers ; usual values are one to four
or five. The effect of a highly conducting mass near a
current dipole can be studied most simply by means of
the method of electrical images.? Brody? showed that
the effect of a spherical cavity filled with blood would
be to increase the field potentials if the dipole axis is
normal to the sphere (radial dipole), or to decrease the
potentials if the dipole is tangential to the sphere.

Previously reported experiments* with an artificial
dipole within the ventricular cavity indicated that the
effect of the “shunting” action of intracardiac blood was
to reduce the electrocardiographic potentials by about
25%. In the experiments reported here, we have placed
the dipole inside or across the myocardium in an effort
to reproduce physiologic conditions more closely. Two
approaches have been made: (a) Electrodes were in-
serted in the myocardium of exposed live dog hearts in
situ, and subthreshold stimuli were applied. The stimu-
lus signal was recorded during systole and diastole, in
order to see if the changing blood volume caused a varia-
tion in amplitude. (The difference was only about 10%.
This small difference was possibly due to the relatively
large residual blood volume.) (b) The hearts were
removed, and after the inflow and outflow vessels were
cannulated, they were placed in a tank modeled after
the human thorax. The tank was filled with saline of

*[stablished Investigator of the American Heart Association.
This project supported by grants from the Maine and Massa-
Shue. Heart Associations and by Grant No. H-2590 of the
USPH

resistivity 1000 ohm-cm. Saline of the same resistivity
was perfused through the heart, followed by a solution
having the resistivity of whole blood. The deflections
produced by the artificial dipole in the two cases were
compared. In addition, the effect on the dipole of a
metal sphere in the tank was tested.

Figure 1 shows the results of an experiment in which
two platinum disk electrodes were sutured on the epi-
cardium of the right ventricle of a heart immersed in

FiGure 1

Dos" 72
RIGHT VENTRICLE Surrace ELECTRODES
(TancewTiaL Dirowr) +
L=970 ——
2 = 78 mms

oz 0°, B:-150"

WHO +20 +30
\ Distance -CM

 

the tank. The curves show the distribution of potential
around the wall of the tank at mid-ventricular level, as
measured by a series of disks permanently mounted in
the tank wall. ==45.7 cm corresponds to the center of
the back, and zero cm corresponds to the center of the
front wall (mid-sternal line). The effect of the low-
resistivity fluid is to reduce the amplitude of the poten-
tials all around the wall. The tabular insert shows that
unipolar and bipolar limb leads are also reduced. Be-
cause of this more or less uniform reduction, the angle
a 1s virtually unchanged. (a, defined as the angle
between the spatial vector and the horizontal plane, is
used in preference to a; the Einthoven angle, since
all components of the vector are thereby taken into
account.”)

Figure 2 is for a similar experiment with a trans-
mural dipole in the left ventricle, where the estimated
angle of the dipole with the myocardial wall was 70°.
The effect of the low-resistivity fluid is now to increase


FIGURE 2

Dos #9

aavsmumaL DiroLe iw Leer Venraiene
a2
= -/0°

Dirore AT anes oF 70° To CAviTY V ua
MY

 

the magnitudes the wall potentials, measured with re-
spect to a Wilson central terminal, over most of the
right side of the tank, to decrease them near the center
and part of the left wall, and to increase them again
over much of the left side. The locations of the null
points are also changed. The table shows that all limb
leads are increased with the exception of Vj, which 1s
reduced in magnitude. Since B (see ref. 5) is only
—10°, « and a; are very nearly equal. a is changed
from —24° to —51° by the low-resistance fluid.

TABLE 1

EFFECT ON LIMB LEADS OF FLUIDS OF DIFFERENT
RESISTIVITIES PERFUSED THROUGH ISOLATED HEART
IN DEEP TANK

LIMB LEADS - MV PER MA - CM

1 2 3

LEAD = 960 P= 170 an

I 1.2 +0.6 + 0.5

II +1.7 + 2.7 + 2.8
111 + 0.8 + 2.1 + 2.3
vy, + 0.3 - 0b - 0.5
Ve - 0.9 - 1.1 - 1.1
Vp + 0.9 + 1.9 +:1.8
= - 31° -66° = 71°

DOG # 12

TRANSMURAL DIPOLE - ANGLE WITH CAVITY 70 - 90°
ESTIMATED TRUE ANGLE ok = .10°, B = 40°

 

Table 1, for the same experiment as figure 1, shows
the effect on the limb leads of the low-resistance fluid,
when a transmural dipole was used. One of the difh-
culties encountered in these tests was the gradual low-
ering of the heart tissue resistance itself with time after
death. However, the data of column 2 were taken first,
followed by column 1 and then 3, so that the error from

FiGure 3

METAL SPHERE IN TANK :
DirPoLE TANGENTIAL TO SPHERE

DISTANCE of DIPOLE CENTER FROM SPHERE

D ——
E——oo (sere our)

 

this cause would tend to make the differences between
the potentials with the two fluids smaller rather than
larger. In order to standardize the records, they were
scaled down to correspond to a dipole excitation strength
of 1 ma-cm. The low resistance fluid causes an apparent
change in the angle a of 35°.

FIGURE 4

METAL Seucre 1N TANK +30

DiroLe ar 45° =

420
Distance or Dirore CenTER From Sewer
K=— & mm
Lo
M—
i w—
0 — a (omen ov)

 

With a tangential dipole, there is a uniform lowering
of field potentials with the low resistance fluid, but for
other angles, the potentials are increased In some areas
and decreased in others. These results can be readily
visualized by means of the method of images, e.g., for a

 

   
  
   
    

Fi1Gure 5
+60
Mv
+50
METAL SPHERE IN TANK +o
DiPoLe RADIAL TO SPHERE
Distance of Dirore Genter From +30
SPHERE
Fe 8 MM
6 3 +20
H _— =
I I d@wo
J —— oO (erwane ovr)
ww

RIGHT

radial dipole, the image dipole inside the highly conduct-
ing sphere will be pointed in the same direction as the
external, real dipole. The image dipole will therefore
reinforce the real dipole at most points, but in a region
between the two dipoles, the image will counteract the
real dipole.

These effects were shown more strikingly in the ex-
periments with a metal sphere in the tank. Although
the resistance of metal is very much lower than that of
electrolytes, it can be shown theoretically that the effect
of the metal sphere on field potentials should not differ
too greatly from that due to a sphere having a resistivity

 

one-tenth that of the surrounding fluid. Figures 3, 4,
and 5 show the horizontal wall distributions for dipoles
at angles of 0° (tangential), 45° and 90° (radial) to
the surface of the metal sphere. Curves E, O, and J,
with the sphere out of the tank or at an infinite distance
from the dipole, correspond to a homogeneous medium.
In each case, the dipole was kept fixed in position, and
the sphere was moved away from the dipole. The effect
of the sphere becomes greater as it approaches the dipole.

In view of these results, we conclude that the presence
of the relatively highly conducting blood inside the heart
chambers may have a significant effect on the valves of
the recorded potentials. We also postulate that the fact
that subepicardial potentials are recorded with much
smaller amplitudes than epicardial potentials may be
explained by (a) their greater distance f rom the record-
ing electrode, and (b) by the greater shunting effect of
the cavity blood on these components. This would cer-
tainly be true for any tangential spread of excitation on
the endocardial surface, but for a purely radial dipole,
the potentials should be increased.

References

1. Schwan, H. P. and Kay, C. F. (1956). Circ. Research 4,
664-670. Specific resistance of body tissues.

2. Nelson, C. V. (1955). Circ. Research 3, 236-242. Effect of
the finite boundary on potential distributions in volume con-
ductors. (This paper explains the method and gives original
references.)

3. Brody, D. A. (1956). Cire. Research 4, 731-738. A theoreti-
cal analysis of intracavitary blood mass influence on the
heart-lead relationship.

4. Nelson, C. V., Lange, R. L., Hecht, H. H., Carlisle, R. P.,
and Ruby, A. S. (1956). Cire. 14, 977. Effect of intracardiac
blood, and of fluids of different conductivities on the magni-
tude of surface vectors.

S. Nelson, C. V. (1957). Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 65, 1014-1050.
Human thorax potentials.


