PROPOSAL FOR NSF GRANT TO SUPPORT COOPERATIVE PROGRAM
FOR NEW ENGLAND COLLEGES
FOR RESEARCH AND EDUCATION IN MACHINE COMPUTATION

a ckaronnd - Last year 27 colleges and universities in
New Engla gan a cooperative program of training and research in
digital computer use using the facilities and staff of the Computation
Center at M.I.T. IBM contributed the machine, a 70%, and the main-
tenance staff, M.I.T. provided most of the supervisory and faculty
staff, the other colleges contributed faculty time of various amounts.

The results of this cooperative effort are promising. Two
full-length courses in machine programming (two weeks, 8 hours each
day) have been given, each to classes of 120-150 of students and
faculty members of the cooperating colleges; several shorter courses
have been given, at M.I.T. and at some of the other schools. During
the 8 months since the 704 has been in operation, problems in the
following subjects have been put on the machine:

 

Aerodynamics Languages

Antropology Mathematics

Astronomy Mechanical Engineering
Business Problems Medicine

Chemistry Metallurgy

Chemical Engineering Meterology

Civil Engineering

Naval Architecture

Education Nuclear Engineering
Economics Operations Research
Electronics Physics

Electrical Engineering Psychology

Geology Public Administration

 

(Details of these problems sre given in the latest semi-annual
report, of January, 1958)

At present, (February 1958) about 150 problems are active,
of which about 100 are from M.I.T., 50 from the other cooperating
institutions. The number of active problems is increasing rapidly and
the proportion of problems from the other institutions is also
increasing. At present the single-shift (5 days a week) operation is
running at about 80 per cent of capacity. In the near future, Saturdays
will be made operating days and in the spring we will have to zo to
two=-8hift operation.


Need for Support - The capacity of the Center to handle
increasing demands is ited by lack of full-time staff to aid the
users in solving thelr problems and to develop programs and suxiliary
equipment to make the machine easier to use. This staff must be of
high quality, able to teach classes and also to participate in
research in machine logic and numerical analysis. The Center operates
on the "open-shop" plan, the user doing his own coding and other
preparation work, but many users need help in finding the most
efficient way to organize their program, and all of them would save
time if wore utility programs and more flexible input-output equip-
ment were available. An intensive project for the development of
techniques and facilities to make the machine easier to use by the
cceasional user has been initiated. This project will require financial
support if it is to be carried out in time to be of help to users in
the next few years.

| Development of Liibily Programs - In addition to assisting

individual users in putting thelr problem on the machine, the Center
staff have the important task of making the machine easier to use by

all users. It always takes time, the experience of many users, to
~ reveal all the capabilities of any piece of machinery; this is parti-
cularly true of high-speed computers. Because of their speed and
complexity it will take a dozen years or more before even the full
capabllities of our present machines are known, and by that time machines
of still more speed and complexity will be bullt. A computer of the
size of the TO4 has an order of complexity such that its designers
literally are not aware of all of its capabilities. Consequently it is
important that research into these capabilities be carried on; such
research, revealing easier ways of obtaining results and new methods of
operation, may at Times go farther in increasing machine serviceability
for the general user than can the providing of a new machine with
increased speed or capacity.

A few years ago.a machine user had to become familiar with
binary arithmetic and with all the other idioscyncrasies of the primary
machine operating code, just as the early auto owner had to be familiar
with spark and choke and clutch. As time goes on it is less and less
necessary for the occasional user to master all these details in order
To use the machine, even if he has to devise a program for a new problem.
In the first place, many of the more usual calculations will have been
already programmed sc That, for example, if one wishes to compute a
esgel function or te apply the chi-squared test for the fit of a
formula ©o a set of date, one need only use the ready-tested program.
In The second place, 1t is possible to provide a heirarchy of "trans-
ation procedures” -- assembly and operator programs, etc. -- whereby
he machine 1tself will translate the desires of the user, expressed
in languoge more familiar to him, into the specialized "language" of

-

the basic machine code, This may be termed programming at the second

od

Ul etl a

al

{

g


or higher level; such programs do not produce computed numbers,
they produce programs which then produce numbers, thereby increasing

machine time somewhat but reducing considerably the time and effort
of the occasional user.

The T04 at the Center has available the usual assembly
programs - the SAP and the more ambitious FORTRAN systems. The Center
staff have already added improvements to these, such as a Post Mortem
pregram so that the 704 may help in analyzing coding errors. They
are engaged in setting an Automatic-Operator System which will con-
siderably increase the efficiency of use of the machine. In addition,
they are investigating various possibilities of waking the next big
step in translation from "mathematical language" to "machine language",
beyond Fortran.

As more and more computations are done on 7O04's, more and
more programs are written which can be used by others desiring to
carry out similar computations. Each such program, to be useful, of
course must have its write-up giving accuracy, limits of validity and
other explanatory and cautionary remarks, and must be prepared in card-
deck or magnetic tape form 80 it can be readily inserted as a part of
some overall program.

Preparation of such a library of sub-routines is part of the
task of the staff. Even the routines put out by the SHARE organization
(the users cof 704 machines) had required testing and evaluating to be
useful for our open-shop operation. The SHARE Library is also deficlent
in regard to function generation. Consequently some of the routines
developed for Whirlwind are being re-programmed for the 704 and the
special function routines, developed at Los Alamos, are also being
adapted for our library. By spring we should have a more complete
library than many 704 installations and probably one more spread in its
applicability than most.

The present staff of the Center is inadequate to keep up with
the day-by-day demands for help and for preparing sub=-routines for
general use. Consequently, work on the more ambitious systems for
simplifying machine control which are planned, is going slowly. Unless
more staff can be employed, the machine's usefulnesg to the faculty
and students of the cooperating colleges and universities will be more
limited Than we would desire.

Development of Auxiliary Equipment - In many experiments a |
great number of data are recorded, which must then be analyzed graphically
or analytically before results of scientific interest emerge. If the
data must be transcribed several times errors arise, and much time is
lost if such transcription in analysis is done by hand. In many cases
it turns out to be worthwhile to arrange to have the data recorded in
a form which the 704% wlll accept and to program the machine to carry
out the analysis and fo record The results in understandable form.


Another possible modification of The 704 shows promise of
increasing the versatility of the machine in a number of aspects.
The basic modification is a set of connections directly to the arith-
metic unit, via appropriate buffer circuits, so that the core memory
and the internal operation of the machine can be controlled "from
outzide”. The combination of this capability with the display
possibilities of the cathode-ray output tube make possible a variety
of new capabilities.

For example, the machine could then be programmed tO display
on the scope a graph of the value of any function of two variables
x and yv along any line in the (x,y) plane. By means of the external
control the position and orientation of the line could be changed at
«will and the graph shown on the scope would change accordingly, thus
enabling the features of the two-dimensional surface to be explored
at will. In fact, the program could be extended to enable the observer
to see the intersection of any surface in three dimensions with any
plane, and to change position and orientation of the plane 8¢ as ©o
explore the surface. This could also be extended to more dimensions.
Minimal contours and geodesics could be determined experimentally, SO
fo speak. :

Of still greater promise, a glass plate on which are drawn
tetters or figures can be placed in front of the cathode ray sereen,
the cathode beam may be programmed to sweep the area (like a TV acope)
and a photo-cell could be arranged to "report back” to the machine
memory (through the control llnk deseribed above) which parts of the
plate are covered with ink. This, of course, is the first step to be
taken in "teaching the machine to read". With such equipment the
machine could be programmed to recognize patterns, reproduce graphs
and, eventually, to reed and recognize numbers or letters.

At present the Center has no technicians who can construct
axiliary equipment of the sort described here, and has 00 funds for
purchasing the necessary parts. A relatively small outlay in the
next few years would enable us to increase the flexibility and
capability of the mechine enormously. It will not be necessary to
set up a separate shop; other Institute shop facilities can be used
if we have the perscnnel %O do the work.

Personnel - The present staff of the Center can direct this
program and carry out some phases, 1f they can be relieved of other
duties which they are at present paid to do. Additional budget would
enable part or all of the time of some of these men to be devoted to
the proposed program; other service and consulting duties they now
nave could be carried out by additional men who could be hired for
that purpose.


Nn

The Supervisory staff involved are:

Dr. Philip M. Morse, Professor on Physics, Director of
the Center
Dr. Frank Verzuh, Director of Operations of the Center
Dr, Dean Arden, Assistant Professor of Electrical
Engineering, Director of Research for the Center

 

Members of the research staff who could participate in
the nrogram are:

Dr. F, J. Corbaté, Staff member of the Centep

Dr, John McCarthy, Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
on leave from Dartmouth College

Dr. M. D. McIlroy, Research Associate

Mr, Sheldon Best, Research Associate of the Center

Mr, Frank Helwig, Research Associate of the Center

Mr. Arnold Siegel, Research Associate of the Center

Budge t-~ Development work of the sort described can be
continued indefinitely, of course, but the first results of the
orogram will provide the greatest benefits in making the machine
more versatile and easy to use. Intensification of the program
for three years would enable many improvements to be made, soon
enough to affect many programs for machine use now being made at
the cooperating institutions. The additional financial support to
carry out this development work is not large comparei to the con-
tributions now being made by IBM and by the cooperating institu-
tions, but the work cannot be done without additional funds.

A minimal budget for the three-year program is as follows:

2 Senior Research Associates (£8000 per year) $16,000
J Junior Research Associates ($5500 per year) 16,500

1 Secretary 4.000
1 Technician (or 2 half-time technicians,

shared by another laboratory) b,500
Eaulipment, parts, etc, 10,000
Travel BE 1,000
Office supplies, revort production, etc. 500
Total Direct Costs $52,500
Overhead 72.875
Annual Budget $60,375

Total for three-(3) year verios $181,125


It i= herby requested that the National Science Foundation
grant funds to the Computation Center at M.I.T. for this three-year
cooperative program.

Philip M. Morse
Director, Computation Center

Approved for President's Office

Approved for Division gf Sponsored Research


