p /
W% s
Memo to: Dr. J. A. Stratton, Provost / o

From: Professor P. M. Morse, Chairman, Institute Committee
on Machine Computation and Numerical Analysis

Subject: Proposed Conference on Mathematical Tables

1. With the reduction of the activities of the
Bureau of Standards in the Numerical Analysis field, there
is left no organization with the responsibility of seeing
that numerical tables of new and useful functions, needed
in research and engineering, are computed, printed in a sat-
isfactory form and made available to the persons and organi-
gations needing them. The need is not for another large
organization, but some central group for planning and coordi-
nation, with some funds avallable to finance editing and
publication.

2. With the growing use of large, high-speed
computing wachines, there is a need for a re-evaluation of
the whole question of mathematical tablea. It is not that
such tables are lecs needed; there are new ways of making
tables, and it may be that tables should be produced in a
different form now.

3. Consequently, there is an urgent need to call
together a small group of persons interested in tables of
functions, both producers and users, to consider these and
other questions and to make recommendations to some national
agency as to the steps this country should take so that the
United States should contribute its share in providing these
tools for science and technology.

K, The Rational Science Foundation has evidenced
an interest in this field and has invited a proposal for
such a conference and a request that the NSF provide the
conference financing.

5. Accordingly, it is proposed that the Institute
suggest to the Science Foundation that there be organized a
two-day Conference on Tables of Mathematical Functions, to
be held at the Institute sometime this summer, to be Jointly
sponsored by the Foundation and the Institute and to be
financed by the Foundation. This should be a working Con-
ference and as such should aumber not more than 25 members,
chosen from those mathematicians, computers, academic and
industrial scientists who are actively interested in tables
of functions, either as prcducers or users. The tentative
agenda would be: