~ " ' ”London computing Service

 

 

V . ' pay your travel and living expenses during. the visit and that I '

 

 

 

   

    
 

 

fur. 91:3. Lendin ,. _ ‘ '1
The English Electric Coupe ~Limited:

 

f Marconi Rouse, Straw};
7 London mo. 2.? menu:

Linear Mr. Landin: '

' Professor Modertby- has spoken to me about your desire
to spend some time at H. I. '1‘. during this homing spring tern “
n and he has shown no your latent letter to him. We‘ would ” ,

? indeed be pleased to have you come with us may the arrange-p
‘uent suggested, which I understand is that your company would

 

14.1. '1‘. would provide you room and {Militias as a temporary
member of our pstatt. What we could do is to have you '_
appointed a Research Associate of the: Gouputati’o’n Center, '
without stipend, for the spring tern. * .. .

Xou may, therefore.“ consider this letter as an official
invitation to visit us under the arrangements outlined above.‘.x
We hope very much that you can accept this invitation. ,I
gather you have heard from Professor McCarthy some of the
activities which are going on here. I an sure you will find V
a number or then of interest to you and I am also sure that
your visit will be stimulating to us. *

Sincere 1y,

Philip M. Morse
Director
PMM: RM


15, Palace Court,
London, W.2.
England.

7th August, 1958.

Professor P.M. Morse,

M.I.T.,
Cambridge,Mass.
U.S.A.

Dear Professor Morse,

I am at the moment, preparing a thesis on "Machine
Interference" for my Master Degree at the University of

London.

I have read a great deal of literature dealing with
the research done in this field in Great Britain, U.S.A,
France, and many other countries.

It has been suggested to me by Dr. D.R. Cox of
Birkbeck'College to-oontact»you inhthe hope that your
will be able to assist me with this problem and perhaps
give me advice on any literature which may have been
published by the institute,or any practical case study
that may have been done in the college or elsewhere.

With very many thanks,

Yours sincerely,

ngi Levy.


DEPARTMENT OF MODERN LANGUAGEI

<5)“ MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

CAMBRIDGE l9, MASSACHUIETTJ‘

November 20, 1957

Professor Philip M. Morse
6-109

Dear Phil :

This is to express my appreciation to you for the very
valuable assistance which you are providing to the machine
translation project through making your facilities available
to Yngve and the others of his group and through the advice
which you and the members of your group have given so
generously.

The even closer association which you are going to make
possible next month by assigning Siegel, Helwig, and Best
to work with Yngve on efficient methods of doing translation
problems on the 701; is certainly going to allow our men to
move ahead faster.

Word is going around that in February Georgetown University
"will demonstrate on an IBM 705 complete translation of over
1000 Russian sentences in context, handling all syntactical
and lexical problems.“ They claim to have made a major
break-through in the handling of syntax. This is going to
put our boys on their mettle, so I know they are going to
appreciate doubly the opportunity to work more closely with
your people.

Sinc erely,/

/ //i;

wnl:rm Wi liam N. Locke ._


