COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

January 4, 1960

Memorandum to Users of the MIT Computation Center 704

Subject: Limitation on Computing Time

‘The requests for time on the 704 have been increasing steadily for
the past two years. Already the schedule is close enough to saturation
that processing delays occur at times of peak demand. It is apparent
that this spring the requested machine time will total more than the time
alloted to MIT on the Center's 704, According to the ag.eement with IBM
two shifts are available for educational-research computing, one shift
for MIT, the other for the other New England colleges. Until recently,
the other colleges have not used all their shift, so that MIT has had more
than a single shift available. But the time used by the other colleges
has increased, so that this year nearly all its time is filled and there
is less for MIT.

The Center has endeavored to accommodate for the increased load by
running one Saturday a month (used primarily by the other colleges, the
correspondingly rcleased week-day time being used by MIT) and by en-
croaching on the third (IBM) shift when processing delays rose to longer
than 24 hours. We hope to run two Saturdays a month this spring and to
encroach on the third shift from time to time, but, even, requested time
will exceed time available for MIT.

Computing time can be delay-limited or it can be limited in advance
by imposing quotas, The Center believes it is more appropriate to impose
quotas, Hereafter problems requiring machine time will be classified as
follows:

A. For use in conjunction with classroom work.

B. Problems which directly or incidentally develop new programs
or techniques which will be useful to other machine users,

C. Other problems.

If requested time for MIT problems, per quarter, is larger than
the estimated time available, allowed times will be reduced proportionately;
cach class may be reduced by a different fraction. A small amount of time


