2. COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Ini titution of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Memorandum To: Problem Applicants Date: July 27, 1960
From: F. J. Corbato, Associate Director

Subject: Request for 709 computer time for currently active
problems

The Computation Center is presently in the process of converting
from an IBM 704 to the more advanced IBM 709. The operating time lost
this quarter due to this conversion, coupled with ambiguities existing
in the previous Quarterly Progress Report, makes it necessary that we
ask you to complete and return this questionnaire.

1) Problem Applicant Problem No.

2) Nemes of programmer submitting report:

 

3) Institution: Department: Phone No. _

4) HFeiling address:

 

 

5) How much 709 time will you require between September 1, 1860
and December 31, 1260? minutes (Note extended period.)

6) Please indicate the reel numbers of any magnetic tape reels
which are assigned to you that you are not finished with.

7) Approximately how many punched cards do you have stored in
the Center card files? (Approximately 1,000 cards per 7 inches.)


COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

July 27, 1860

To Users of the Computation Center:

Programmers presently using the Center cord storage facilities are urged

it hes become necessary that the Center control the card storage
apace available to programmers just as it does the magnetic tape reels.

to see the Dispatcher, Mr. R. Dunn in the Run Processing Room, 26-058
about having assignments made for their problem. Briefly, the policy
on storage facilities at the Center is 88 follows:

op

1)

2)

3)

@)

3)

Any active problem may have card storage space and/or magnetic
tape reels assigned to it for exclusive use.

Such assignments are made by the Dispatcher, upon request,
from a limited supply of such facilities.

Neither Center card drawers nor magnetic tape reels are to
be removed from the Center.

in times of need, the Center may find it necessary to call
pack some of these facilities for a more equitable distri-
bution,

The problem applicant is responsible for the prompt release
or replacement 0f these facilities when the problema becomes
inactive and/or the facilities are no longer nceded.

Lt

¥F. J.J/Corbats
As ate Director


