INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION

APPLIED SCIENCE BESEARCH

678 MASSA MUSE ~ . MN ; AM NN » rv MA SSACHMUUSEY ISS - » » “oe Jaan

March 22, 1957

Dr. Philip Morse

Director, Computation Center
Building 6-109

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. Morse:

The purpose of this letter is to set down on paper some of the
thoughts expressed and decisions reached in past meetings with Dr. Verzuh
and Dr. Arden. The attached table is the final schedule drafted and mutually
approved last month. It is based on three-shift operation. The machine
times of MIT and the other New England schools are lumped together as
UNIV, with the implicit understanding that this time is to be distributed
equitably between the two groups on a share-desirable-hours basis. One
morning and one late evening period of 3.5 hours duration each enable
them to make lengthy production runs. ASR designates the IBM Applied
Science Research usage, while PM represents the approximate time anti-
cipated for preventive maintenance.

During the early weeks of the installation, it appears likely that the
work load will be modest enough to permit two-shift operation. In this event,
our suggestion would be to suspend machine usage at midnight and pool the :
ASR time with the time allotted as above to the New England schools. Under eo ,
this plan, 6 hours are retained by MIT, 3 hours are conservatively reserved
for preventive maintenance, and the remaining 7.5 hours are shared by the
other two groups.

It has been agreed that two 704 operators will be employed for each
of the shifts. In the ultimate three-shift operation, the four operators
rn ———
working on the first two shifts are to be hired by MIT through IBM funds,
while the two operators for the last shift are part of the Applied Science
Research staff. The two sets of MIT operators will work from 8:30 a.m.


Dr. Philip Morse -L- March 22, 1957

to 11:30 p.m. The ASR operators will work from 11:00 P.m. to 7:45 a. m.,
thus covering a portion of the UNIV machine time. This permits the MIT
operators to leave before midnight and make their transportation connections.
For the preliminary two-shift operation, it is suggested that the first shift

be manned by MIT operators and the second shift by ASR operators, so that
full MIT employment can be postponed for the time being.

To facilitate efficient usage of the 704, as well as to promote close
cooperation among the groups concerned, we recommend that the atia« hed
schedule be used only to establish a top priority for any given period. Hence,
if one group is not able to fully utilize its available 704 time, a secard grog
standing by will be able to go on the machine.

In closing, we wish to express our desire that regular meetings of
the ASR and UNIV groups be scheduled to discuss common interests in the
operation of the MIT Computation Center.

Very truly yours,

Parl) Arad.

Martin Greenberger

) A AT Cade ty 7

J. F. Blackburn

MG: jn
Attachment

cc Dr, Dean Arden
Dr. C. R. DeCarlo
Dr. Mel Shader
Mr. D. T. Spaulding
Dr, Frank Verzuh


