Minutes 2£ the Meeting with Dr. Hurd, I.B.M. Corp.

December 15, 1954

Persons Present: C. F. Floe, P. M. Morse, Cuthbert C. Hurd, F. M. Verzuh
(R, H. Gregory, G. S. Brown, T, M. Hill, T. M. Whitin)

Dr. C. C. Hurd, Director of Applied Science Division, I.B.M. Corp.,
came to M.I.T. to discuss possible cooperation between I.B.M. and M.I.T.
with specific emphasis on the long-range computational program.

A preliminary meeting was held with Dr. Hurd in Verzuh's office
between 9 and 10 a.m. at which time Hurd was informed of the following
facts:

1. The present I.B.M. machine installations available at M.I.T.
and their annual rental costs. See Table I.

9. The educational teaching and academic research activities at
M.I.T.

3. Proposed future teaching and training activities at M,I.T.
4, Long-range computer requirements at M.I.T.

This discussion was followed by a quick tour of the Statistical Services
facilities.

The principal meeting was held in Morse's office and was attended
by Floe, Morse, Hurd and Verzuh. Morse briefly described the recent Conference on Tables
which was held at M.I.T. in September and requested Hurd's comments regarding
proper mthods for future dissemination of information regarding new tables.
Morse then described our present computational activities and gave some indica-
tion of our nggds for the future. Specifically, he indicated that WW1l would be
released somewhere within the next five years and therefore the Institute had
to make plans for procuring some equipment in the caliber of the 700 EDPM ma-
chines. He stated that at the present time we are spending approximately
$200,000 a year for maintenance and operation of WWl. The question was then
raised as to how I.B.M. and M.I.T. could best cooperate to their mutual ad-
vantage in the future. Hurd indicated that I.B.M.'s interests were primarily
of two types:

1. The encouragement of educational training which would result
in the development of engineers capable of creating new and

better computing machines.

2. The encouragement of educational training of applications per-
sonnel.

He divided the latter into three categories: