06-16 compel-Anon CENTER

 

Iasssohusettl Institute of Technology
“abridge 39, Iasssohuletts

mum
to: Wt Heads Date: April 10, 1957
m: P. I. Horse, Director

Subject: Approval of Requests for amputation Time at the Center

 

l. The Center has set up the rule that all research workers,
faculty or students, who wish to use the equipnent of the Center in the
course of their research. lust apply for approval of their computing plans
and for assignment o1 nchine tine, using the forms enclosed. Heehine tine
for unclassified research, connected with graduate education. is free, but
no need the fol-mus- of an application so as to have the chance to look
over colputstion plans before they are started. to see whether they are
feasible and to see whether we can allocate the required tine. (he classiﬁed
work an be done at the Center.)

2. The center is asking that each Department Head approve each such
application which involves either faculty members or students in his department,
before the application comes to us. We feel this added requirement is desirable
because:

 

1. It gives you a chance to see what use your department is
making of the Center (you may wish to Keep a record of the forms you
have OK'd.)

2. It gives us the benefit of your judgement o! the value of
the proposed research to the educational activities carried on by-
MIT. We do not ask you to judge the feasibility of putting the
problem on a computing machine (we will do that); we 92 ask that
you approve only these requests which represent useful research in
the field of your department and which contribute non-trivially to
the education of one or more students.

3. We do not ask that you approve requests for machine time
from 15R projects. involving only DSB. staff members in the prosecution
of the research of their project. Such purely project computation.
usually of a more routine nature, will have lower priority in machine
time assignments, will be expected to contribute financially to the
support of the Center, if time is assigned, and arrangements for
this work will be discussed between the Center and the Project
Supervisor directly, without needing to bother you. In any case, the
work must be publishable.

 

 

4. To approve an application, you should Sign in the box on the
right-hand column, mrked "Inst. Rep. Approval", circled in red in the enclosed
sample. We will not accept an application without such a signature°

5. If, you have any questions about these procedures please call or
see me or Frank Verzuh.

M