with the current value of the location counter. But first,
if there is a symbol in the location field, enter this
symbol in the dictionary as a relocatable symbol having

as its value the current value of the location counter,

so that the first decimal number in the variable field

may be referred to by this symbol." The total number of
binary words generated is one more than the number of
commas in the variable field. There are three types of
decimal numbers which can be specified in the variable
field of a DEC pseudo-operation. These are integers,

fixed point numbers, and floating point numbers. Any
combination of these three types may appear in the variable
field of one DEC pseudo-operation. An integer is repre-
sented by a string of eleven or fewer digits, possibly
preceded by a minus sign. An integer is converted to a

n

35-bit binary number with sign. Thus '"-31" would convert
to 400 000 000 037,. A fixed point number or a floating
point number may have a decimal point and/or a signed
decimal scale factor. If the decimal point is missing,

it is assumed to be at the right-hand end of the principal
part of the number. The scale factor is signalled by the
character E, and follows the principal part of the number.
Thus "'3.14159", ''314159.E-5", ''314159E-5', and " .314159E1"
all represent the same number. A number is £E§39<BSEEE

if its representation contains the letter B. The letter

B is followed by a signed decimal integer which specifies
the location of the binary point in the binary word which
results from the conversion of the decimal number. The

B- integer is the number of integral places in final result.
Thus a B-value of O specifies a 35-bit binary fraction,
while a binary integer results from a B-value of 35. A
B3-value of minus one specifies that the binary point is
located one place outside the left-hand end of the word.
If a fixed point number has an E-part as well as a B-part,
then both must appear after the principal part of the

number, but their relative order is unimportant. Hence