I. INTRODUCTION

XPERIMENTAL data on spinels indicate that the
distribution of cations over tetrahedral and octa-
hedral sites cannot be explained on the basis of electro-
static and elastic energies alone. Electronic bonding
energies must be considered. Also, no explanation has
yet been given for the difference beween Fe;O4, which
alone transforms on cooling from a cubic to an ortho-
rhombic spinel at a relatively low transition temperature,
and other spinels, such as Mn3O4, ZnMn,0O4, CuFe,0y,
which become on cooling tetragonal at a relatively high
transition temperature. The tetragonality of metallic
indium and of Caln,O4 and CdIn,O4 have never been
explained. For hausmannite there has been no definitive
selection between the formulas MnO - Mn,0O3 and 2MnO
-MnQO,. The difference in resistivity discontinuities
through the transition temperatures of I‘e3O4, on the one
hand, and Mn;O4 and ZnMn;O4, on the other, has not
been explained. Neither has any explanation been given
for the fact that Mn3O4 1s paramagnetic at least down
to 72°K despite the large magnetic moments of Mn**,
Mn**t, and Mn** ions. In this paper it is suggested that
covalent forces are responsible for the above effects. A
new magnetic-exchange mechanism, ‘“semicovalent
exchange,” is proposed.

II. IONIC ORDERING
A. Description of Spinels

Many oxides consist of a face-centered cubic lattice
of O* ions which is held together by interstitial cations.
There are two kinds of interstices between the elements
of such a lattice, tetrahedral interstices with four nearest
neighbors and octahedral interstices with six nearest
neighbors. If all the tetrahedral sites are empty and all
the octahedral sites are filled, the crystal has the rock-
salt structure; if only tetrahedral sites are occupied, the
crystal has the zinc-blende structure. In oxides with
the spinel structure there are cations in each type of
interstice ; twice as many octahedral as tetrahedral sites
are occupied. The spinel lattice may be thought of as

 

 

* The research in this document was supported jointly by the
Army, Navy, and Air Force under contract with the Massa-
a “s3
chusetts Institute of Technology.

Reprinted from THE PrysicaL Review, Vol. 98, No. 2, 391-408, April 15, 1955
Printed in U. S. A.

Theory of Ionic Ordering, Crystal Distortion, and Magnetic Exchange
Due to Covalent Forces in Spinels*

J. B. GoopeENouGH AND A. L. LoEB
Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington, Massachusells

(Received September 1, 1954)

Elastic- and electrostatic-energy considerations are insufficient for an explanation of cation ordering
between tetrahedral and octahedral sites in spinels. Tetrahedral, octahedral, and square covalent bonds are
also important when cations are to be accommodated in these sites. The square bonds in octahedral sites
can cause the tetragonal distortion observed in Mn;Oy, v-Mn20;, ZnMn»O,, CuFe:04, CuCr.04, Caln,Oy,
CdIn,04, and metallic indium. A new magnetic exchange mechanism, “semicovalent exchange,” which is
consistent with the covalent model, is used to explain the magnetic properties of spinels.

an ordered mixture of the zinc-blende and rock-salt
structure.

There are two general classes which have the spinel
lattice, the 2-4 spinels with the formula 2X*+0-Z*0,
and the 2-3 spinels X**0O-Y**0;. In order to describe
the cation distribution, these formulas may be written
as Z(X)04 or X(ZX)04 and X(Y3)04 or Y(XY)Oq,
where the ions within the parentheses occupy octahedral
sites. If there is only one kind of cation in the octahedral
sites, the spinel is called normal. If there are equal
amounts of both kinds of cations in the octahedral sites,
the spinel is inverse. If there is an unequal number of
each kind of cation in the octahedral sites, the spinel is
mixed.

B. Critique of Previous Work

Since the physical properties of any spinel depend
not only on the kind of cations in the spinel but also on
their distribution within the interstices, it is important
to understand what forces are responsible for cation
ordering within a lattice. Verwey and his co-workers!
have made a study of the cation arrangement in oxides
with spinel structure. A summary of the experimental
determination of cation location is given in Table I.

Since the observed cation distributions do not always

LE. J. W. Verwey, Z. Krist. 91A, 65 (1935).

2 van Arkel, Verwey, and van Bruggen, Rec. trav. chim. 55
331 (1936).

3 Verwey, van Arkel, and van Bruggen, Rec. trav. chim. 55,
340 (1936).

{E. J. W. Verwey and J. H. de Boer, Rec. trav. chim. 5§, 531
(1936).

5 J. H. de Boer and E. J. W. Verwey, Proc. Phys. Soc. (London)
49A, 59 (1937).

¢ Verwey, Haayman, and Heilmann, Philips Tech. Rev. 9, 185
(1947).

TE. J. W. Verwey and E. L. Heilmann, J. Chem. Phys. 15, 174
(1947).

8 Verwey, Haayman, and Romeijn, J. Chem. Phys. 15, 181
(1947).

9 Verwey, de Boer, and van Santen, J. Chem. Phys. 16, 1091
(1948).

10 de Boer, van Santen, and Verwey, J. Chem. Phys. 18, 1032
(1950).

11 J. H. van Santen, Philips Research Repts. §, 282 (1950).

2 EF. W. Gorter, Compt. rend. 230, 192 (1950); Nature 165,
798 (1950).

BI. J. W. Verwey et al., Z. physik. Chem. 198, 6 (1951).

14 T. C. Romeijn, Philips Research Repts. 8, 304 (1953).

391


392 Jj. B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

Tare I. Observed cation distributions in some oxides with the spinel structure.

—_— FF FF ll pln —eee—e———————————————

Xt Y3+ or Zit Alt y+ Crt (Mn?t) Felt
Ionic
radiusb 0.57 0.66 0.64 0.70 0.67

Mg?+ 0.78 Ne Nd Ne It!
Mn?t 0.91 Ne Nd Ne (N)e I°
Fe?t 0.83 Ne Nd Ne Ie
Co?* 0.82 Ne Ne I
Nit 0.78 IN3Ie Ne Ie
Cu?t (0.70?) Ni Ik Ite
Zn** 0.83 Ne Nd Ne (N)® Ne
Cdzt 1.03 Ne Ne Ne
Li* 0.78 Al(LiAlp) Oe FeLi; (Cra) Oe

Rh3* Gat Fe Int Get Sntt Ti+ Sit Vit
0.69 0.62 0.92 0.44 0.74 0.64 0.39 0.61
Ne Ith It! 0° Ie 0! Je
Ne Ie I°
Ne
Ne [(N] It Ie Pi
Ne [NV]
Fe (LijFey) 04°

ee rr —————————— I ————
—_——_—

a [N] means normal structure inferred, cation distribution not experimentally established. Distributions marked with daggers are not entirely inverse;
the number of divalent ions in the tetrahedral sites are temperature-dependent. The letters N, I, O, P refer to normal-spinel, inverse-spinel, olivine, and

phenacite structures, respectively.

b Atomic Radii: Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Chemical Rubber Publishing Company, 1953-1954), thirty-fifth edition. Goldschmidt values

wherever available,
¢ F. C. Romeijn, Philips Research Repts. 8, 304 (1953).
d G. H. B. Lovell, Trans. Brit. Ceram. Soc. 50, 315 (1951).
eE. J. W. Verwey and E. L. Heilmann, J. Chem. Phys. 15, 174 (1947).
T. F. W. Barth and E. Posnjak, Z. Krist. 82, 325 (1932).
W. Riidorf and B. Reuter, Z. anorg. Chem. 253, 177, 194 (1947).
. Machatschki, Z. Krist, 82, 348 (1932).

rm
my

L. Passerini, Gazz. chim. ital. 60, 389, 754 (1930).
k McGuire, Howard, and Smart, Ceram. Age 60, 22 (1952).
I IF. Buschendorf, Z. physik. Chem. (B) 14, 297 (1931).

coincide with their predictions, which were based only
on the electrostatic and elastic forces in a purely ionic
model, Verwey and Heilmann’ suggested that the
anomalies could be accounted for by the stability of the
tetrahedral covalent bonds which form about certain
cations when located in tetrahedral interstices.

Romeijn' has suggested that ions with a noble-gas
outer-electron-shell structure, such as Mg**t, AI**, and
Ti*t, are less compressible than ions with a full or half-
filled d-shell, such as Zn**, Cd**, Gat, In®*+, Get, Snt,
Mn’, and Fe**, so that the latter group is more easily
accommodated in tetrahedral sites than is the former.
It is not obvious why a full or half-filled d shell should
be more compressible than a noble-gas shell. However,
since the outer electron shells in noble-gas structures
are separated from the next higher energy levels by a
considerable energy gap, they do not provide empty
orbitals for the formation of covalent bonds. In transi-
tion metals the nd and (n4-1)s orbitals differ very little
in energy. Covalent bonds are therefore easily formed,
and since covalent bonds involve orbital overlap, they
are shorter than electrovalent bonds. Therefore the ions
with outer d shell appear more compressible than those
with outer noble-gas shell.

Finally Romeijn" and van Santen and van Wier-
ingen'® considered the effect on electronic binding ener-
gies of crystalline fields in ionic crystals of cubic sym-
metry. They stated that the d shell splits in such a field
into two set of orbitals, one extending along the (111)
directions, the other in the (100) directions.'® Van
Santen and van Wieringen assumed that the former is
more stable when the outer electron configuration of the
cation is @ or d® (as in Mn*, Cr*t, and Ni?t), but that

'* J. H. van Santen and J. S. van Wieringen, Rec. trav. chim. 71,
420 (1952).
“H. A. Bethe, Ann. Physik 3, 133 (1929).

A. F. Wells, Structural Inorganic Chemistry (Oxford University Press, London, 1950), second edition.

the latter is more stable for the configuration @® or d7 (as
in V3 and Co’). An ion with a stable (111) electron
configuration would, according to van Santen and van
Wieringen’s express assumption of electrovalent bond-
ing, fit more easily into an octahedral site where the
electron charges of the cation can fit between the
directed anion p orbitals without appreciable overlap.
An ion with a stable (100) electron configuration would
fit more easily into a tetrahedral site for an analogous
reason.

The assumption regarding the relative stabilities of
the d-shell bonds has never been substantiated. What is
more important, however, is that the result of the over-
lapping of the filled oxygen p orbitals with the empty
cation orbitals has been ignored. Such an overlap gives
rise to coordinate covalence which reduces the polarity
of the cation-anion bond, stabilizes the system, and
reduces the effective anion radius. The influence of
electrostatic and elastic energies on cation ordering is
reduced. It will be shown below that if covalent con-
siderations are used to supplement and modify the
electrostatic and geometric considerations of the purely
ionic model, the cation distributions in the spinel
lattice can be readily accounted for without recourse
to an assumption either with regard to the d-shell
splitting of various atoms or to the compressibility of
the d shell.

The cation distribution in a crystal is determined by
its minimum free energy A=E—TS, where 7 is its
absolute temperature, S is its entropy, and E, its
internal energy, is the sum of an electrostatic contri-
bution E;, an elastic (Born-repulsion) contribution E,,
and an electronic-bonding and exchange contribution
E,. In the spinel lattice, covalence effects E;, E,, and E,.
In the absence of covalence E, approximately equals
zero. Covalent bonding makes E, appreciably negative

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 393

and, by decreasing the ionic charge and bond length,
alters the influence of E; and E,. Since disorder corres-
ponds to high entropy and the entropy contribution
(TS) increases with temperature, high temperatures
tend to disturb ordering.

III. COVALENT BONDS
A. Introduction

It was pointed out in Sec. ITA, above, that spinels
are an ordered mixture of the zinc-blende and rock-salt
structures. It is expected that those metals whose oxides
form the zinc-blende structure tend to occupy tetra-
hedral sites in spinels as they do in the oxides. Similarly
metals whose oxides are of the rock-salt type tend to
occupy octahedral sites. Frequently the relative stabili-
ties of the two metals in a given interstice in the spinels
must be compared before an actual prediction about
their distribution over the two types of sites can be
made.

The zinc-blende interionic bond is predominantly
covalent if the cation is large. Purely ionic forces would
place the cation in the interstices with the largest anion
coordination, viz., the octahedral position. The metals
whose oxides have the zinc-blende structure are there-
fore expected to be covalently bound to tetrahedral
sites when in a spinel lattice.

The octahedrally coordinated cations of the rock-salt
structure may be either electrovalently or covalently
bound to their near-neighbor anions. The relative
strength with which a metal, whose simple oxide has the
rock-salt structure, is held to an octahedral interstice
in the spinel lattice depends upon the relative charge,
size, and covalent-bonding of the competing cations.
Cations which are more stable in octahedral sites in the
simple oxides tend to go into octahedral sites, but may
be forced into tetrahedral sites in the spinel lattice.
Therefore both electrovalence and covalence may be
found in each type of interstice. To distinguish between
electrovalence and covalence, the valence of the former
is written in Arabic numerals (e.g., Mg*t), of the latter,
in Roman numerals (e.g., Zn'!).

In spinel crystals the coordination of the close-
packed-anion interstices limits the possible cation-
anion bond types which can be formed. If the stable
covalent-bond types which any cation forms can be
independently determined, the anion interstices In
which the steric constraints are compatible with stable
covalent-bond formation are known. Measurements of
the steric structure of complex ions containing a particu-
lar cation provide the necessary independent information
since the complex-ion structure is primarily deter-
mined by the stable covalent-bond formation. Complex-
ion structure is only secondarily effected by steric
hindrance and the difference in the electronegativities of
the components. The steric structure of complex 1ons
can be determined by optical and by magnetic-sus-

ceptibility measurements.!” Thus a knowledge of com-
plex-ion structure gives information about both the
relative stabilities of a cation in octahedral vs tetra-
hedral coordination and the possible distortion of the
steric constraints.

If covalent bonds are formed in the spinel lattice,
both bonding electrons come from the anion, and the
bond is coordinate-covalent. The near-neighbor anions
perturb the cations so that they form stable, empty
hybrid orbitals which overlap with the anion p orbitals.
If the empty orbitals have energies which are nearly
degenerate with the outermost filled orbitals, if the
electronegativity difference between the ions is not too
great, and if the orbital overlap is large, the empty
cation orbitals interact with the full anion p orbitals to
accept electrons from the anions. Then the anion p
electrons are induced to share their time between the
cation and the anion. If empty orbitals are not available
for hybridization, half-filled orbitals can participate in
covalence. However, filled cation orbitals obviously do
not participate in covalent-bond formation.

B. The Oxygen Orbitals

The oxygen ion has the structure 1s25?2p%. The p
orbitals are three mutually perpendicular dumbbells.
In oxides with the spinel lattice each oxygen has four
near-neighbor cations, of which three are in octa-
hedral sites and the fourth is in a tetrahedral site. The
three octahedral sites are situated along three mutually
perpendicular directions from the oxygen; the tetra-
hedral site lies in the (111) direction away from the
quadrant defined by the three octahedral sites. The
oxygen can bond covalently with any or all of the
octahedral-cation neighbors through its three p orbitals.
In this case, however, there are no anion orbitals
directed toward the tetrahedral site, and the tetra-
hedral-site cation-oxygen bond is ionic.

If the bond toward the tetrahedral site is covalent,
the overlap of full oxygen orbitals with the empty
orbitals of the octahedral-site cations is reduced since
the oxygen p orbitals no longer point directly towards
the cations. This reduction in orbital overlap reduces
the strength of any covalent bonding in the octahedral
sites.

Thus there is competition between the tetrahedral
and octahedral sites for overlap with the full oxygen p
orbitals. Unless strong covalence can occur simul-
taneously in both types of sites, there will be covalent
bonding in, at most, one type of site only. If stable
covalent bonds can be formed in both types of sites at
once, hybrid (sp®*) orbitals, which point toward the four
corners of a tetrahedron, may be admixed with the p°
orbitals on the oxygen ion. Such orbitals do not overlap
as much with the octahedral-cation orbitals as do the
pure p* orbitals, and the strength of the octahedral-site

17 1,, Pauling, The Nature of the Chemical Bond (Oxford Univer-

sity Press, London, 1948), second edition; J. Am. Chem. Soc. 33,
1367 (1931).


covalent bond is reduced from the value it has when the
tetrahedral-site bonds are ionic. A Serle
estimate of the proportionate reduction In octahedral-
site covalent-bond strength due to simultaneous co-
valence in the tetrahedral sites is given later In
Appendix I and Fig. 6.

C. Cation Hybrid Orbitals

There are three kinds of cation hybrid orbitals which
are important in the spinel lattice where the steric
constraints are due to the close packing about either
tetrahedral or octahedral interstices. If either steric
hindrance or too large differences in electronegativities
prevent hybrid covalent-bond formation, 10nic bonds
are formed. The important cation hybrid orbitals have
tetrahedral, octahedral, or square configurations.

1. Teirahedral Orbilals

The tetrahedral orbitals result from the hybridization
of (sp?) orbitals.” These point toward the four corners
of a tetrahedron. They are predominantly formed in
cations with a full d shell which is separated in energy by
only a small interval from the next empty s and p shells.
Tetrahedral coordination is common for Zn! and Cd",
for instance. The strength of these covalent bonds de-
creases with increasing atomic number of the cation and
decreasing atomic number of the anion in any one
column of the periodic table.

There is some evidence that Fe** and Mn?*, each
with a half-full, spherically symmetric d shell, form
bonds which are partially covalent. Although these ions
form ionic bonds in Fe,O3 and MnO, the wurtzite struc-
ture of one phase of MnS indicates that the possibility of
covalent-bond formation is by no means negligible. In
the tetrahedral sites of the spinel lattice, where the
steric constraints favor the formation of tetrahedral
covalent bonds, these ions undoubtedly form bonds with
a partially covalent character. Evidence for this lies not
only in the fact that the ferrospinels are frequently
inverse, with a definite tendency for Fe! ions to go
into the tetrahedral sites, but also in the observation
that inverse ferrospinels have a lattice parameter which
is roughly 0.06 A smaller than would be expected if the
lattice were normal.” This reduction in lattice parameter
could be due to a shorter cation-anion bond for Fell! in
the tetrahedral sites than Fe" in the octahedral sites,
the difference in bond length indicating the degree of
covalence in the tetrahedral bonds.

 

2. Octahedral Orbitals

The octahedral, hybrid (d%p®) orbitals occur in the
transition elements which have partially filled d shells.
In this case six bonds are directed toward the centers of
six faces of a cube. These bonds are not easily identified
since they are accommodated, without distortion, in an
octahedral site just as are ions which form predomin-
antly ionic bonds. These bonds would form most readily

ese

A
394 J. B. GOODENOUGH AND A.

 

OEB

i outer configuration d@* or d°. If ap
about Oe. d® forms an ionic bond ip
—_ h dral site, it contributes 4.90 Bohr mag.
7 . re magnetic susceptibility whereas it con.
es i paramagnetic moment if it is bound co-
valently.l” The bond cannot be partially lonic and

artially covalent since this would require mixing two
a of different electron Spin. In complex ions like
[Fe(CN)e J the Fel! forms covalent bonds, but in the
oxides the large electronegativity of the oxygen ions
causes Fe?* to form ionic bonds. In d” ons like Cr and
VII however, there is no spin change involved in
changing from ionic to covalent bonding so that par-
tially covalent bonds can be formed which cannot he
distinguished from ionic bonds by magnetic measure-
ments. It is probable that these 1ons are stabilized in
the octahedral sites by partial covalent-bond formation,

3. Square Orbilals

Finally there are the square, coplanar (dsp?) orbitals
which point toward the four corners of a square. These
occur in the transition elements that have one d
orbital available for hybridization, such as cations with
outer electron configuration d*, d®, or d°. Cations which
form square, covalent bonds can be accommodated in
an octahedral site.

The cation Cul! is known to form square bonds in
complex ions,'® cupric oxide,” and cupric salts.”
Although the Cu'! cation may, theoretically, form either
four tetrahedral (sp?) orbitals or four square (dsp?)
orbitals, the square-bond formation in CuO clearly
indicates that the latter bond type is the more stable
bond for Cu'! in an oxide lattice. Therefore the Cu®!
cation is more stable in the octahedral sites of the
spinel lattice where the steric constraints favor the
formation of square bonds.

Since cations with the outer electron configuration d®
can accommodate at most only ten additional electrons
in a hybrid dsp shell, their maximum coordination num-
ber is five. Therefore they cannot form octahedral
(@*sp*) bonds since this would require exciting two
electrons to some higher energy level. Since there are
two vacancies in the d shell, square (dsp?) orbitals can
be formed. In order to hybridize such orbitals, however,
the cation must reverse one electron spin to reduce its
paramagnetic moment to zero. There are many nickel,
palladium, and platinum complexes!” such as
[Ni(CN)4J*-, which are both coplanar and diamagnetic.
It is significant that in their cyanide complexes Ni! has
coordination number four whereas Fel! and Fell! have
coordination number six. Because an electron spin IS
reversed when @® cations form covalent bonds, the bonds
these cations form are either covalent or ionic, but never
a mixture of the two. Since NiO has the rock-salt

*D. P. Mellor and D. P. Craig, Proc. Roy. Soc. (N. S. Wales)
75, 27 (1941). d D. P. Craig, Proc. Roy. Soc. (N.

"A. F. Wells, St

; ructural Inorganic Chemistry (Oxford Univer
sity Press, London,

1950), second edition.

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 395

structure with the Ni** electrovalently bonded, it may
be assumed that Ni** forms electrovalent bonds in the
oxides with the spinel structure. The large difference
in electronegativities between nickel and oxygen is the
decisive factor favoring ionic-bond formation. Palla-
dium, however, is less electropositive than nickel and
does form square bonds in PdO. If Pd were in a spinel,
it should form square bonds in the octahedral sites.
Cations with the outer electron configuration @*, such
as Mn®*, can hybridize empty (dsp?) orbitals for coor-
dinate covalence without altering their paramagnetic
moment. Since it would require energy to reverse an
electron spin to form (d2sp?®) orbitals, the square bond is
the most stable covalent-bond configuration. These ions
can be accommodated in octahedral sites with the
formation of partially or completely covalent bonds.

D. Summary

In Table IT there is a summary of the covalent-bond
strengths and the cation distributions favored by the
covalent forces. The strength estimates depend, of
course, upon the relative sizes of the cations and the
interstices. They also depend upon the electro-
negativity difference between the anions and the
cations. Finally, they depend upon the strength
of the covalent bond in the opposite set of lattice sites.
If a bond cannot be partially covalent, covalent effects
have no influence unless the bond is completely
covalent. If such a bond is marked “weak” in Table II
it means it has a small chance of being completely
covalent. If such a covalent bond is formed, however,
its influence is strong.

 

   

As a rule of thumb, it is suggested that the covalent
forces be considered first in any prediction of the cation
distribution in a spinel lattice. If these are weak, the
energy term E, may be neglected and the Madelung
energy and geometrical considerations of Verwey and his
co-workers may be used. If the covalent forces are
moderate or strong, these are usually the predomin-
ant ordering influence. With such a simple, qualitative
rule, all of the observed structures given in Table I
except Co(CoSn)Oy, can be predicted. Since the Made-
lung energy strongly favors the observed structure in
Co(CoSn)Qy, it is concluded that the covalent forces,
which are weaker in this instance than when associated
with any of the other Group IV cations, are not suffi-
ciently strong to reverse the order.

Mg,GeO4 and MgSiO4 have the olivine structure. The
olivine structure may be described either as an assembly
of [GeO] or [SiO4]¢ groups with the Mg* ions
between them, or as an infinite array of approximately
close-packed oxygen ions with Ge!V or Si'V in tetra-
hedral and Mg?" in octahedral interstices. This structure
is analogous to the spinel. It differs, however, in that the
tetrahedral bonding is so much stronger than the octa-
hedral bonds that the cubic close packing of the oxygen
ions is distorted.

The phenacite structure, which is formed by Zn,SiOy,
has a tetrahedral coordination about both the Zn! and
the Si'V cations. The Si—O and Zn—O covalent bonds
are apparently sufficiently strong to force all the cations
into tetrahedral sites and distort the oxygen lattice
from close packing.

HE] \
J \
a(1+l) \ 7)
Ag JZo (1+€') tg ER 4
O : ax
| “TXD
(7
i 2
ee Fh a(1+8)
LEGEND: Fa 1-0) LETHE =

LJ Fe?* Mn?* in B siTE
Fe3** Mn%* IN B sITE
Fe", Mn2* IN A sITE

O 0%

x+y=h/a

Ld

—]

Fi1G. 1. Tonic model of distortion to tetragonal symmetry due to ordering of B-site ions.


396

 

LOEB
J. B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L.

in spinel lattices and predicted magnetic moments
S

1 i valent force € :
Faget dV. Batimvisd Sn a for cations bonded in various ways.

A. Transition cations.

   
  

     
 
  
   
   
  

——

Estimated Magnetic
strength moment

be

1.73

  
 

    
 
 

Tet. (sp°)
Oct. pd)
Sq. (dp°)

  
 

Tet. >)
Oct. (dsp)
Sq. (dsp?)

1.73

  

1.73

  
 
   

  

2.83
2.83
2.83

Tet. op)
Oct. (5°)
Sq. Wd)

  
     
 
  
  

         

    
 
  
 
 
  
 

Vv Very weak 3.88

Tet. Gp)
Oct. (d%p°)
Sq. Wd)

 

 
 
  
 

 
 

Moderate 3.88

  
 

3.88

     
  

4.90
Tet. 6p)

Oct. dp)
Sq. dip)

   
 
 

2.83
4.90

  
 
  

 

   
 
 
 
 

Iv 5.91
o

1.73

   
  

 

  
    
 
  
      
 
  

 

3.88

Tet. 5°) 4.90

Oct. (250%) 0

Sq. (dsp?) Very weak 2.83
2s Weak 3.88
- Weak Z3

Weak 2.83
Moderate

» Solid arrows refer to cation-electron spins; dashed arrows t

| : ) 0 spins of anion elec ing i i
b Strength estimates are modified by (1) relative size of interstice and cation at oy into cominste covslence.

BARR: : : nter ie. tt : ER rst
in electronegativities of cation and anion, (3) type of bonding in other interstices, and (8) the acrmical overlap), $2 9}ference
Ll ~ ( oy

     
 
   

_—

 

Tet. Goo)
2
Sq. (dsp”)

  
 

Tet, Gp)
Sq. (dsp?)

}

    

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 397

TasLE II (continued).
B. Other cations

 

 

Cation Estimated strengthe Cation Estimated strengthe

Li*  Electrovalent Ga’* Mod. strong tet. (sp?)

Mg?** Electrovalent In3* Mod. tet. (sp°) and sq. (dsp?)
AB Electrovalent (C+) Extremely strong tet. (sp?
Zn** Strong tet. (sp?) Sit Very strong tet. (sp?)

Cd** Strong tet. (sp?) Ge'*t Strong tet. (sp?)

Hg?** Mod tet. (sp?) Sn** Mod tet. (sp?)

ee ——————————————————————————————————————

© Strength estimates are modified by (1) relative size of interstice and
cation (i.e., amount of orbital overlap), (2) difference in electronegativities

of cation and anion, (3) type of bonding in other interstices, and (4) the
atomic weight of the cation.

 

IV. LATTICE DISTORTION

It is proposed that in spinels the lattice distortions to
tetragonal symmetry are due to covalent-bond forma-
tion whereas those to orthorhombic symmetry are due to
cation ordering in the octahedral sites. In Sec. A, below,
there is a discussion of the distortions due to ionic order-
ing. In Sec. B there is a theoretical discussion of tetrag-
onal distortion due to coplanar covelant-bond forma-
tion and an application of the theory to CuFe;O4. In
Sec. C both models are applied to spinels containing
manganese. Experimental observations are shown to be
consistent with the covalent model. In Sec. D it is pro-
posed that the indates and metallic indium are also
distorted by covalent-bond formation.

A. Lattice Distortion and Ionic Ordering

Since 1929%:2 it has been known that magnetite
(FFe30,4) undergoes a phase transition as the temperature

is raised through 119°K. This phase transition produces
a ninety-fold increase in the electrical conductivity over
the temperature range 118.9°K <7" <119.9°K 8:22 After
Verwey and de Boer! had determined that Fe;O, is
inverse, Verwey® suggested that below the transition
temperature the Fe** and Fe®t ions in the octahedral
sites are ordered in alternating planes perpendicular to
the ¢ axis. Above the transition temperature disorder is
produced by the movement of electrons between Fet
and Fe®* ions. The transition temperature is low be-
cause the transition is electronic, rather than ionic.

If the lattice distortion below 120°K is due to cation
ordering in an ionic lattice, it should be possible to
calculate the ordered-phase lattice parameters from a
knowledge of the ionic radii. Verwey predicted that a
tetragonal distortion would result if there was an
ordering of Fe** and Fe®t cations into alternate planes
of octahedral, or B, interstices. Such a distortion would
be possible only in a purely ionic lattice in which the
tetrahedral, or 4, site is distorted as shown in Fig. 1.
The generality of this distortion for all tetrahedral sites
is apparent from the representation of the spinel struc-
ture in Fig. 2. Although, as was first suggested by Bick-
ford,* orthorhombic symmetry will result if the tetra-
hedral site is not distorted as shown, there is no obvious
reason why, if a purely ionic model is correct, a distor-
tion to tetragonal symmetry should not occur provided
the oxygen-oxygen separation is V2a(1—e)> 2.64 A.

The cation-oxygen distance depends upon the size
of the cation. If the Fe**— (0? distance is a(1+¢) and
the Fe3*—0O>= distance is a(1—{’), then the distortion

 

VA [] ~ OCTAHEDRAL CATIONS

® —~ TETRAHEDRAL CATIONS

O — ANIONS

F16. 2. The spinel lattice with ordering in the B sites.

2 P. Weiss and R. Forrer, Ann. phys. (10) 12, 279 (1929).

2 R. W. Millar, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 51, 2135 (1929).
2 B. A. Calhoun, Phys. Rev. 94, 1577 (1954).

2, J. W. Verwey, Nature 144, 327 (1939); E. J. Verwey and P. W. Haayman, Physica 8, 979 (1941).

2 [,. R. Bickford, Jr., Phys. Rev. 78, 449 (1950).


398
of the tetrahedral interstice can be calculated from the
geometrically derived relations:

(1+ o=[2(1+%)*— 1]* costs,
DD

(1—¢)=[2(1—¢)*—11 cosy’,
\o'=[(1—¢')?— 4]! sin,

! gi i f the oxygen

Aad and Aad’ give the displacement 0 xygen

er the planes of Fe** and Fe?t ions, respectively]
VZa(1—¢) and V2a(1+ ¢) give the a :
“ert and the Ie ’

tetrahedral oxygens near the Fe** and a
ectively ; and 8, 0, are the declination ang :

in Fig. 1, The height i= (x+y)a of the distorted tetra
hedron can then be calculated from the geometric

relation,

=r+y=[d—3(1—9]}
etre lr HE tern V2
joni i dral-site Fe?"
i n ionic model is used, the tetrahe
a nto (ad), is assumed identical for each of
the four oxygen ions. If the interionic distances =
known, a self-consistent calculation for \ can be carrie
out provided use is made of the requirement,

(h/a)=A(1+5—5). (IV.3)

If the values a(14+§)=2.15 A, a(1=¢") =2.09 A, a= 2.10
A and d=V3/2 are chosen, then the predicted axial ratio
for the tetragonal lattice is ¢/a=\= 1.022.
Although tetragonal symmetry can be prsdinge by 2
purely ionic model in which a close packing o ar
spheres 1s envisaged, orthorhombic symmetry must re-
sult if covalent forces play a significant role in the tetra-
hedral-site bonds. Since the covalent-bond gon tribusions
which are formed by overlap of Fe'*- (sp) hybrid
orbitals and the oxygen p wave functions have their
maximum strength for tetrahedral coordination, they
resist any distortion of the tetrahedral bond angles.
The cation-anion bond angles in the distorted tetra-
hedral interstice of Fig. 1 would be more nearly tetra-
hedral if x were reduced and y were increased, Le., if
the cation were located closer to the neighboring B-site
plane perpendicular to the ¢ axis which contains Fe*+
cations than that which contains Fe'* cations. Thus the
resistance to distortion of the tetrahedral covalent-bond
angles forces apart the B-site-Fe** cations and forces
together the B-site-Fedt cations. Since the ordered,
B-site-Fext cations are arranged in parallel rows which
are perpendicular to the similar set of parallel Fe** ions
in alternate planes (see Fig. 2), a separation of the Fe**
cations and an approach of the Fe** cations produces a
shear strain so that an orthorhombic distortion results.
The reported distortion is of this type. Abrahams and
Calhoun2® have measured with x-rays the dimensions
of the unit cell at 78°K. They reported the ortho-
rhombic axes to be a=5.912, b=35.945, ¢=8.388 A.

25 See Appendix II. A
26S, C. has and B. A. Calhoun, Acta Cryst. 6, 105 (1953).

J. B. GOODENOUGH AN

 

pA. L. LOEB

ds to the generalization ty oo

: edral interstices and if they
kinds of cation occupy Oe dicular to some c¢ axis,
order in alter will suffer a distortion to tetragonal or
then the ee Y metry. The ‘magnitude of the dis-
orthorhom . ee upon the difference in cation size,
tortion will Ly orthorhombicity will increase with the
: Sa ee covalent bonds in the tetrahedral inter-
stren

stices.

This discussion lea

B. Lattice Distortion and Square-Bond Formation

1. Theory

di ?) orbitals to form four
Y set An oe interstice of the
Sy oon teric constraints will permit covalent
pi lay ] in any one of the three biaxial planes
bonds fe J top temperatures the covalent bonds will
hye ET the three possible biaxial planes. All
Nw directed bonds are partially ionic,
Se d. since they are equivalent, the
EE ed erved. Below
cubic symmetry of the interstice 1s proses 2
some ordering temperature, however, the covalent
bonds are frozen into one of the three biaxial planes,
and the octahedral-site cation 1s bound to the six near-
neighbor anions by four coplanar covalent bonds and
two linear electrovalent bonds. Because of orbital
overlap, the four coplanar covalent bonds are shorter
than the two electrovalent bonds, and the elementary
octahedron becomes distorted from cubic to tetragonal
symmetry with an axial ratio ¢/a>1. If the elementary
octahedra have tetragonal symmetry, the elastic energy
of the crystal is minimized when their tetragonal axes
are aligned parallel to one another. This produces a
distortion of the bulk lattice from cubic to tetragonal
symmetry with an axial ratio ¢/a>1. Te
If \ is the fraction of square-bond-forming cations in
octahedral sites, there exists a value A=X\ below which
no distortion of the crystal occurs. For A <\o there is no
alignment of tetragonally distorted octahedra to pro-
duce a bulk distortion of the lattice. For a tetragonal
distortion of the crystal it is necessary to have a con-
tinuously linked system of square bonds. For such a
long-range order to occur, each octahedral ion that does
not form square bonds must, on the average, have at
least two of its six octahedral near neighbors that do.
Therefore, for tetragonal distortion of the crystal
lattice to occur, at least 25 percent of the octahedral
cations must form square bonds. This means that the
minimum A, equals 0.25.
If the band model is applied to the crystal, the highest
occupied electron-energy band is the (dsp?) covalent
band. Because orbital overlap decreases with decreasing
distortion, the energy of the (dsp?) covalent band 18
‘raised with decreasing axial ratio so that it becomes
easier to remove electrons from it. At high temperatures
some of the electrons are thermally excited from the
covalent band. However, when an electron is excite®

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING

a hole is left in the covalent band so that the coplanar
covalent bonds in some octahedral site become
partially ionic. This ionic character resonates among
three mutually perpendicular planes and reduces the
difference between the character of the bonds parallel,
and that of the bonds perpendicular, to the ¢ axis so that
the tetragonal distortion is reduced. This, in turn,
facilitates the removal of an electron from the covalent
band. Thus the loosening of the square bonds from the
planes perpendicular to the ¢ axis is a cooperative phe-
nomenon, and the transition from the tetragonal to the
cubic phase occurs over a small temperature interval
when the sample is heated.

Conversely, if the sample is cooled from above the
transition temperature, there is a temperature at which
the covalent band is sufficiently full for some of the
covalent bonds to become frozen into place. This
“freezing in” of covalent bonds increases ¢/a and there-
fore the orbital overlap. An increase in the orbital over-
lap reduces the number of electrons which can be
thermally excited from the covalent bond so that more
covalent bonds are frozen in. Again there is a fairly
sharp transition temperature, but, because of the
difference in axial ratios, this temperature is lower than
that observed when the sample is heated. This tempera-
ture difference shows up as a thermal hysteresis which
varies in temperature change with the magnitude of the
axial ratio of the tetragonal phase.

In an ordered-bond model there is a correlation be-
tween the lattice distortion and the excitation energy as
measured by the temperature dependence of the con-
ductivity. A conductivity discontinuity and thermal
hysteresis at the transition temperature are correlated
with the discontinuity and hysteresis in the axial ratio.
IFurther, the excitation energy decreases slowly with
increasing temperature so that a plot of the logarithm
of the conductivity vs the reciprocal of the temperature
does not give an ideally straight line.

According to the square-bond model the axial ratio
¢/a depends upon the ratio of the ionic-bond length to
the covalent-bond length. In Sec. IIIB, above, it was
shown that the amount of covalence in the octahedral
site, and therefore the bond length, depends on the type
of bond in the tetrahedral interstices. If strong tetra-
hedral, covalent bonds are formed in the tetrahedral
sites, the octahedral bond becomes more ionic and its
length is increased so that the ¢/a ratio is decreased.
The magnitude of this decrease is estimated in Appendix
I.

The transition temperature at which the phase change
from tetragonal to cubic symmetry occurs varies with
the magnitude of the electronic-excitation energy. Since
the excitation energy varies with the magnitude of the
axial ratio ¢/a, the square-bond model leads to the
prediction that the transition temperature varies mono-
tonically as the ¢/a of the tetragonal phase provided all
other factors are constant.

In summary, the square-bond model leads to the

399

following predictions. (a) If cations (such as Cul,
Mn, Pd) which form stable (dsp?) bonds occupy
octahedral sites in an oxide with the spinel structure,
then the lattice is distorted to tetragonal symmetry
with ¢/a>1. (b) At least 25 percent of the octahedral
cations must form square covalent bonds if lattice
distortion due to a long-range order of bond orientation
is to occur. (c) The magnitude of the axial ratio ¢/a
increases with the number of cations in octahedral sites
which form square bonds. However, strong covalence
in tetrahedral sites reduces the covalence in octahedral
sites and hence the axial ratio. (d) There is a narrow
temperature interval through which ¢/a decreases
rapidly to 1 to give cubic symmetry. (e) Through the
transition temperature interval there is a marked in-
crease in electric conductivity ¢ and a marked decrease
in the excitation energy. (f) The transition temperature
depends upon the magnitude of ¢/a at absolute zero.
(g) The transition shows a thermal hysteresis. (h) The
excitation energy decreases with increasing temperature.

2. Application of Theory to CuFe Oy

Bertaut*” has measured the lattice parameter and the
cation-ordering parameter XA in CuFe;0y as a function of
temperature. The parameter X is the fraction of octa-
hedral interstices occupied by M?** ions; the ferrospinel
formula is therefore written as M_aFea (Fes aMa) Os.
The values A=0, §, 3 correspond, respectively, to a
normal, statistically disordered, and inverse spinel.
Bertaut observed that CuFe,O4 is tetragonal below
760°C. The axial ratio ¢/a and the parameter \ both
decreased monotonically from room temperature to
700°C. Above 760°C the Cu*! cations are randomly
distributed in the anion interstices, and the lattice is
cubic. It is especially interesting that Bertaut, who was
convinced that the distortion to tetragonal symmetry
was due to cation ordering, was unable to find any
x-ray superstructure lines. The only ordering through
the transition is a concentration of Cu®** ions in the
octahedral sites; among the octahedral sites, however,
these ions are randomly distributed. Since the distortion
is not accompanied by ion ordering among octahedral
sites, it appears that the distortion is due to square-
bond formation. Since the copper ions in CuO are Cu™
and form square, coplanar bonds, they undoubtedly
form similar bonds in the spinel lattice. Because of the
steric constraints, these bonds can only be formed if the
Cu'! is in an octahedral site. If square covalent bonds
are formed in an octahedral site, the elementary octa-
hedron is distorted from cubic to tetragonal symmetry,
and the alignment of these octahedra produces the
macroscopic tetragonal symmetry of the crystal. This
hypothesis is consistent with the observation of van
Santen and van Wieringen'® that in CuFe.O, the oxygen
octahedron surrounding the Cu®* ion is tetragonally
distorted.

27 E. F. Bertaut, J. phys. radium 12, 252 (1951).


ee ——77

 

400 j. B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

The correlation between the axial ratio and the con-
centration of copper in octahedral sites as functions of
temperature can be explained on the basis of the
square-bond model. At room temperature Bertaut
found 88 percent of the copper in octahedral sites
(A=0.44) and an axial ratio ¢/a=1.06. At 700°C the
concentration of copper in octahedral sites had de-
creased to 74 percent (A\=0.37) and the axial ratio to
¢/a=1.035. The fact that Cu’! migrates from octahedral
to tetrahedral sites indicates that Cu'! can be readily
accommodated in tetrahedral sites although, because of
square-bond formation, it is more stable in octahedral
sites. The increase in entropy due to this migration
apparently offsets the corresponding decrease in internal
energy. That the decrease in the number of square bonds
in octahedral sites due to the Cu! migration is accom-
panied by a decrease in the distortion is consistent with
the covalent model.

Quantitative correlation between Bertaut’s observed
axial ratios and \ produces the relation,

(A—0.26)=3(c—a)/a for A 20.26. (IV.4)

The factor (\—0.26) is a measure of the stress induced
by square-bond formation. The strain is given by
(¢c—a)/a. Equation (IV.4) expresses a linear stress-
strain relationship (Hooke’s law). It also states that
in CuFe.0; it is necessary to have 26 percent of the
octahedral sites occupied by Cul! before tetragonal
distortion sets in. This corresponds closely to the esti-
mate that at least 25 percent of the octahedral cations
must form square bonds. Equation (IV.4) can be used to
extrapolate to the case of a completely inverse CuFes0y,
for which A=0.5. In this case half the octahedral sites
contain Cull, and Eq. (IV.4) gives ¢/a=1.08. In a
hypothetical spinel in which all octahedral sites are
occupied by Cu!" ions and in which no covalent bonding
exists in tetrahedral sites, there are twice as many
square bonds in the octahedral sites so that ¢/a=1.16.
This latter value is significant for comparison with the
axial ratios of other tetragonal spinels which are thought
to have square-bond formation in all the octahedral
interstices.*®

C. Tetragonal Spinels Containing Manganese

Hetaerolite (ZnMn,O,;) and hausmannite (MnzO4)
each form a spinel lattice with tetragonal symmetry.
Their axial ratios are reported as ¢/a=9.23 A/8.08 A
=1.14® and ¢/a=9.42 A/8.14 A=1.16,¥ respectively.
Mason? and Romeijn¥ have determined that the Zn!
cations of hetaerolite are in the tetrahedral interstices.
This cation arrangement corresponds to the optimum
configuration for covalent bonding (see Table II) as well

28 McGuire ef al., Ceram. Age 60, 22 (1952), report that CuCr,O,
is also an inverse, tetragonal spinel with ¢/a=1.1. Its axial ratio
varies with temperature in an analogous manner to that of
CuFe Os.

2 B. Mason, Am. Mineralogist 32, 426 (1947).

® G. Aminoff, Z. Krist. 64, 475 (1926).

as for Madelung energies. Since the Mn!! cations may
also form partially covalent bonds In tetrahedral inter-
stices, it may be analogously assumed that in the haus-
mannite lattice Mn! cations occupy tetrahedral inter-
stices. This means that there are only two possible
cation arrangements for these tetragonal spinels, viz.,
Zn? (Mn2+Mn#H)O4 or Zn (Mny!'H)O4 for hetaerolite
and Mn2+(Mn2*Mn+)Os or Mn2+ (Mn, Oy for haus-
mannite. If the former arrangement is correct, then the
distortion to tetragonality might be due to an ordering
of Mn+, Mn*t cations in alternating planes perpendic-
ular to the ¢ axis. Such a model was first proposed for
hausmannite by Verwey." If the latter arrangement 1S
correct, then some mechanism other than ionic ordering,
such as square-bond formation, must be responsible for
distorting the lattice to tetragonal symmetry. Since it is

impossible to distinguish between Mn*t, Mn®**, and

Mn#t by x-rays, it is necessary to use other measure-
ments to distinguish between the two alternatives.
Before the predictions on the basis of the two models are
compared with various measurements, however, it
should again be pointed out that Mn*t has the electron
configuration @* which, according to Sec. III, is partic-
ularly suited for the hybridization of empty (dsp?)
orbitals for coordinate-covalent square-bond formation.
The square-bond model is, therefore, particularly satis-
factory for spinels which contain Mn**, or rather M nitl,
Seven physical properties are discussed below.

1. Tetragonal Symmelry

The distortions to tetragonal symmetry in both
hetaerolite and hausmannite must be caused by the
same mechanism. Since Zn!!, which is well known to
form tetrahedral covalent bonds, is tetrahedrally
coordinated in hetaerolite, the tetrahedral-site bonds are
certainly largely covalent. Therefore if the lattice dis-
tortion from cubic symmetry were due to an ordering of
Mn?t+ and Mn** ions in the octahedral interstices, the
lattice would have orthorhombic symmetry as in Ie;Os.
However, the lattice has tetragonal symmetry.

If the square-bond model is correct, then hetaerolite,
which has strong covalent bonding in both the tetra-
hedral and octahedral interstices, should have a smaller
axial ratio than hausmannite which has strong covalent
bonds only in the octahedral sites. The calculation of
Appendix I shows that a reduction from ¢/a=1.16 to
¢/a=1.14 is the order of axial-ratio reduction to be
expected.

Further, an axial ratio ¢/a=1.16 for hausmannite,
which forms square bonds in each occupied octahedral
site and no covalent bonds in the tetrahedral sites, 1s
exactly the ratio which is predicted from the extrapola-
tion of the CuFe,0, data.

2. Transition Temperatures

The transition of Mn;0, from tetragonal to cubic
symmetry was first observed at 1170°C by McMurdie

’

 

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 401

and Golovato® who used a high-temperature x-ray
technique. Romeijn'* has measured the dc conductivity
of Mn;O4 and ZnMn,O4 and found a conductivity
discontinuity in the temperature intervals 1075°C
<7 < 1150°C and 950°C <7 <1025°C for the respec-
tive materials.

Although the Madelung bonding energy of the com-
pletely ordered state of Fe;O4 is 39.6 kcal/mole!
greater than that of the disordered state, whereas the
thermal energy corresponding to a transition tempera-
ture of 7=120°K is 0.23 kcal/mole, the retention of
considerable short-range order above 120°K can account
for this discrepancy. If the phase transition to cubic
symmetry were due to the same mechanism in Mn;0y as
in Fe3O4, then the transition temperature should be
approximately four times higher in the 2-4 spinels since
the Madelung-energy change due to octahedral-site
ordering is four times as great. There is no reason to
assume that the retention of short-range order above
the transition temperature should be strikingly different
in Mn30O4 than in Fe;O4. The analogous transition tem-
perature for MnzO, would be 480°K, a value which is
only a third of the observed transition temperature of
1443°K.

Since the covalent model offers an entirely different
mechanism for lattice distortion, no correlation between
the transition temperature of Fe;O4 and Mn3Oy is to be
expected. There should, however, be a correlation of
transition temperatures among the tetragonal spinels.
On the basis of the square-bond model, the transition
temperature varies with the magnitude of the axial
ratio. This prediction is consistent with observations on
CuFe;04, ZnMn,Os, and MnzO; whose transition
temperatures are 760°C, 1025°C, and 1170°C, corres-
ponding to axial ratios 1.06, 1.14, and 1.16, respectively.

3. Conductivity Discontinuity

Romeijn* has measured the conductivity of MnO;
and ZnMn.0, as a function of temperature and found
that there is a conductivity and excitation-energy
discontinuity associated with the phase change from
tetragonal to cubic symmetry. Although there is a
similar effect in Fe;O4, the discontinuity in magnetite
occurs over a 1°C interval and exhibits no thermal
hysteresis, whereas the manganate discontinuities occur
over a 75°C interval, are considerably less pronounced,
and exhibit a marked thermal hysteresis.

This contrast again corroborates the hypothesis that
the phase transition in magnetite is due to a different
mechanism than that in the manganates. The observed
thermal hysteresis and resistivity discontinuity are
greater in Mn;O4 than in ZnMn»O,. Also, the excitation-
energy discontinuity is greater in Mn;Os. Such a
correlation was predicted in Sec. B by means of the
covalent model.

3H. F. McMurdie and E. Golovato, J. Research Natl. Bur.
Standards 41, 589 (1948).

4. Resistivity at Room Temperature

Verwey and de Boer! investigated the electrical
resistivity of hausmannite at room temperature and
found that it was 10% to 10° that of Fe;Os. Romeijn
reported p(Mn3O4)/p(Fe;0g) =107 ohm-cm/5X 1073
ohm-cm=2X 10°. The relatively high conductivity of
Felt (Fe*tFett)O4 is due to the transfer of electrons
from octahedral Fe’* to octahedral Fe** ions. In
Mn?**(Mn,'1)O,4 there is no exchange of electrons pos-
sible, and the observed high resistivity follows.

5. Paramagnetism of MnzOy

If MnjO4 consists of Mn*t(Mn**Mn*t)0O,, there
should be an antiferromagnetic coupling between the
octahedral and tetrahedral Mn** cations which is com-
parable in strength to that between the Fe®* cations in
Fe;04. However, Mn3Oy is paramagnetic at room tem-
perature, and Millar® has measured the specific heat
from 72°K to room temperature and found no N-point
in this range.

It will be shown in Sec. V, below, that paramagnetism
in Mn3O, follows from the covalent model.

0. v-Mn,03

The oxide y-MnyO; is a spinel with 8/3 cation va-
cancies per unit cell. It has tetragonal symmetry with an
axial ratio ¢/a=1.16.* This is the same axial ratio as
that found in Mn3Oy; the mechanism which produces
the distortion to tetragonal symmetry is apparently the
same in each case.

If the distortion mechanism consists of an ordering
of Mn?t and Mn*t ions in the octahedral interstices,
then y-Mn,0; must have a unit cell with eight Mn**
ions in octahedral sites and (8/3) Mn** ions in tetra-
hedral sites. The (32/3) Mn? would be distributed over
the remaining interstices of each type. Such a configura-
tion, however, would minimize neither the Madelung
energy, which favors all the Mn*" ions in octahedral
sites, nor any covalent-energy contribution due to tetra-
hedral-bond formation, which favors Mn?" ions in the
tetrahedral interstices. It is difficult to see, therefore,
how such a cation distribution could possibly represent
the minimum-energy configuration.

In the covalent model, on the other hand, all the
cations are Mn*+, or Mn!!! and the distortion is due to
square-bond formation in the octahedral sites. If the
Mn!!! form square, quadricovalent bonds in the octa-
hedral sites, the manganese ions are more stable in
these lattice positions, and the correct formula for
v-MnyOj3 1s Mns3(Mng)Oy4. All the vacancies are in the
tetrahedral sites, and the axial ratio should, as it does,
equal the value 1.16 which was calculated in Sec. IV B.
Finally, the observed high electric resistivity must
follow as the covalent bond is full, and there is only one
type of cation present.

2 R. W. Millar, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 50, 1875 (1928).


102 7

7. Lallice Paramelers

If the distortion to tetragonal symmetry in MnzOjs is
due to the formation of square, covalent bonds about
Mn?t ions in the octahedral interstices, then the a-axis
is a measure of the covalent-bond length and the c-axis
is a measure of the ionic-bond length. If the cubic
symmetry above the transition temperature is due to a
resonance of the coplanar bonds among the three biaxial
planes of the octahedral interstices, then the lattice
parameter above the transition temperature is the
measure of a bond length which is 3 covalent and 3
ionic. At room temperature c=9.42 A and a=38.14 A,
so that the equivalent cubic lattice parameter is
ao=2a+1c=8.56 A. The coefficient of thermal ex-
pansion is estimated as

Aao/acAT = 107° per degree.

Since @,=8.56 A, this gives Aao=0.09 A for AT
=1100°C. At the transition temperature, 1170°C, the
lattice becomes cubic with a measured lattice parameter
a'=8.64 A. The lattice parameter which is calculated
from the assumptions of square-bond formation in
Mn+ (Mn, 1) Oy is ac+Aao=8.65 A. The agreement is
satisfactory.

C. The Indates and Metallic Indium

Passerini® has measured the lattice parameters of
CaIn,O4 and CdIn,O4. Each of these crystals was found
to be tetragonal; their respective axial ratios are 1.12
and 1.14. The cation distribution in these indates has
not yet been determined. MgIn,Oy, on the other hand,
was found by Barth and Posnjak® to be cubic and in-
verse.

It is known that Cd!! tends to occupy tetrahedral
interstices where (sp®)-covalent-bond formation is pos-
sible. It may therefore be assumed that CdIn,O4 is
normal. Ca?t, like Mg**, forms ionic bonds so that it
might be expected to occupy octahedral sites as do the
Mg** ions in MgIn,Os.

If the lattice distortions to tetragonal symmetry are
due to cation ordering in the octahedral sites, then
MgIn,O4, which is inverse and has the larger difference
in ionic radii (ionic radii of Mg**, In*t, Cd**, Ca*t are
0.78 A, 0.92 A, 1.03 A, 0.99 A, respectively), should give
a larger distortion than CdIn,O4 and Caln;O4. On the
contrary MgIn.Oy is cubic, and CdIn;O4 and CalnyOy
are tetragonal.

On the other hand, since the axial ratio of CdIn.Oy is
identical with that of ZnMn,O4, which probably has
(sp*) covalent bonding in the tetrahedral sites and
(dsp?) covalent bonding in the octahedral sites, it is
pertinent to inquire whether CdInyO4 can form the same
type of bonds. Although gaseous In** has a full 3d shell
so that square-bond formation appears improbable, a
study of metallic indium suggests the opposite.

wm L.. Passerini, Gazz. chim. ital. 60, 754 (1930).
#7. F. W. Barth and E. Posnjak, Z. Krist. 82, 325 (1932).

B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

Metallic indium is face-centered tetragonal with an
axial ratio ¢/a=1.076.3 Since the lattice is distorted
from cubic symmetry, it is not possible to explain the
distortion by the interaction of the conduction electrons
with the lattice, i.e., by the interaction of the Fermi
surface with the Brillouin-zone energy-discontinuity
surfaces.’ In y-Mn, which is also face-centered tetrag-
onal but with ¢/a=0.937,%" it is possible to explain the
distortion as due to magnetic-exchange interactions,’
but such interactions are not present in indium. Also,
the indium distortion is in an opposite sense from that
in y-Mn.

In the usual discussion of energy bands in metals the
d, s, and p bands are considered separately. However, if
the d, s, and p bands overlap, a hybrid band would be
more stable. In metallic indium there is doubtless an
overlap of d, s, and p bands. It is suggested, therefore,
that there is a hybrid, covalent, (dsp?) band in indium.
This band is full with one electron per indium atom left
over for metallic bonding (see Fig. 3). If there is a
(dsp?) band, it will be reflected in square covalent bonds
about each indium atom. The four nearest neighbors of
each indium atom are indeed located at the corners of a
coplanar square. It is suggested, therefore, that just as
in the case of tetragonal spinels, the distortion to tetrag-
onal symmetry in metallic indium is due to the forma-
tion of square covalent bonds. Further evidence for this
suggestion is given in Appendix III.

The study of metallic indium indicates that when
indium is in a lattice, the 3d electrons can be active in
bond formation. It is probably just as correct, therefore,
to consider the outer-electron configuration of In*t to be
d’s as to consider it d'°. When the steric constraints
favor (dsp*)-bond formation, the configuration ds
makes one d wave function available for hybridization
which can enter into coordinate covalence with four
coplanar oxygens as illustrated in Fig. 4. If In!!! does
indeed form square bonds, then the square-bond model
is applicable to the indates. In'!! in an octahedral site
tends to cause tetragonal distortion through covalent
square-bond formation. Normal indates have, therefore,
tetragonal symmetry due to covalent square-bond for-
mation in the octahedral sites. On the other hand, In!!!
in a tetrahedral site tends to prevent tetragonal distor-
tion because its strong (sp*) bonds weaken the covalent
bonds in octahedral sites. ‘I'his was shown in Sec. I111B,
where it was stated that the oxygen p orbitals are
directed toward that near-neighbor cation which forms

4d Ss Sp
-—rp — eB  —— ee > —i =
ns wm apr i — Dow @ = @=
@000scnc00r 00 gece 0OntoRe
Nidss?)

Fic. 3. Metallic indium with a full covalent (dsp?) band.

3% WV. Betteridge, Proc. Phys. Soc. (London) A50, 519 (1938).
% J. B. Goodenough, Phys. Rev. 89, 282 (1953).

37 A. Westgren and G. Phragmen, Z. PL. ik 33, 777 (19253).
3% C. Zener, Phys. Rev. 81, 440 (1951) ;

TE

o-

 

 

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 403

8d S00 e ve 56 Ls
e a
Ea Eye

(dsp?)

F1G. 4. Electron-spin configuration for In! forming
four coplanar covalent bonds.

the strongest covalent bond with oxygen. In inverse
indates, tetragonal distortion is possible only if enough
octahedral cations form sufficiently strong covalent
square bonds.

Since In(MgIn)O, is cubic, there appears to be in-
sufficient covalent bonding in octahedral sites for tetrag-
onal distortion. There has to be a certain minimum
number of covalently bound ions in octahedral sites for
tetragonal distortion. This number depends on the
strength of these covalent bonds. In CuFe;O4 the mini-
mum number was shown [ Eq. (IV.4)] to be 26 percent
of the octahedral cations. Since in In(MgIn)O4 the
octahedral covalent bonds are weaker than in Cule,0y,
the minimum fraction of covalently bound ions in
octahedral sites should here be greater than 26 percent.
In In(MgIn)O4 each oxygen is surrounded by one
tetrahedral indium and three randomly distributed
octahedral indium and magnesium ions. Magnesium is
bound electrovalently. One oxygen can be bound co-
valently to one tetrahedral and two octahedral indium
ions through the admixture of oxygen (sp’) orbitals
(Sec. IIIB, and Appendix I). Since only 50 percent of
the oxygen ions have two octahedral indium near-
neighbors, only 50 percent of the octahedral indium ions
form significantly strong square bonds. This means that
only 25 percent of the octahedral cations can form
square bonds; as shown above this is insufficient to
cause tetragonal distortion.

It is concluded that all normal indates are tetragonal,
and that the inverse indates are cubic if the bivalent
cation is electrovalent. If the bivalent cation can form
covalent square bonds, the indate should be tetragonal

TaBLE III. A comparison of some physical properties of spi

oa/op and (ea— ep) are the ratio of conductivity and the d

Spinel Axial ratio
Composition distortion Axial ra

Fes04 Ozthorhombic iy 5.945:8.388"
Mn;0O; Tetragonal ¢/a= 1.16% y
Cul'eOqy Tetragonal cla= 1.16 ;
CuCry0Oy4 Tetragonal ¢/a=1 ’
v-Mn20; Tetragonal ¢/a= L. {44
ZnMn.0, Tetragonal c/a=1 14]
CdIn.O, Tetragonal ¢/a=1.I

: ¢c/a=1.12)

Caln.Oy Tetragonal

eee——

 

» S. C. Abrahams and B. A. Calhoun, Acta Cryst. 6, 105 (1953).
b B. A. Calhoun, Phys. Rev. 94, 1577 (1954). 5
¢ McMurdie, Sullivan, and Mauer, J. Research ivatl.

d B. Mason, Am. Mineralogist 32, 426 (1947).

even when inverse. Therefore it is predicted that if
Culn,O4 or PdIn,O4 form spinels, they will be found to
be tetragonal, whether normal or inverse.

If the square-bond model is accepted for indates, the
axial ratio of CdIn.O4 must equal that of ZnMnyOy, as
has been observed. In each case the spinel is normal,
and covalent bonds are formed in both tetrahedral and
octahedral sites, so that the axial ratio ¢/a=1.14 is
less than that of MnsO4 (as explained in Appendix I).

Finally, the axial ratio of Caln,Os c¢/a=1.12, is
greater than the extrapolated value for completely
inverse CuFe,04, ¢/a=1.08. Therefore this spinel can-
not be inverse. This conclusion finds further support in
the fact that if it were inverse, it would not be distorted
because Ca? forms electrovalent bonds. The axial ratio
¢/a<1.16 is due to incomplete covalent bonding in the
octahedral sites. If this indate were completely normal,
this weakening could not be due to covalent bonding
in tetrahedral sites. It is concluded, therefore, that
Caln,O4 is partially inverse; the concentration of
covalently bound cations in octahedral sites is then less
than that in the spinels with axial ratios 1.16 and 1.14,
and the presence of In in both octahedral and tetra-
hedral sites causes a further reduction in axial ratio.

It is significant that gallates are cubic and that
metallic gallium does not have the close-packed, tetrag-
onally distorted structure. Apparently gallium, like
mercury, tends to form pairs of atoms, presumably
through (1/3)s+ (1/V3)p.+ (v/5/3)d. hybrid orbitals.

H. Summary

In Table III there is a summary of the properties of
those spinels which become orthorhombic or tetragonal.
The orthorhombic-Fe;O4 transition is seen to be quite
separate in character from the tetragonal transitions.
The orthorhombic distortion has been definitely es-
tablished as due to ordering of the octahedral Fe** and
Fett cations. The distortions due to ionic ordering are
believed to be orthorhombic rather than tetragonal.

nels which distort from cubic symmetry below a transition temperature 7.

ifference in electron activation energy above and below 7.

SS —————————————————————

 

 

€a —€d Thermal
IT aga/ob in ev hysteresis
—153°C® 90 — 0.05 Noneb
1170°Ce Se —0.55¢ ~45°Ce
760°C= .e ‘es ‘on
1025°Ce 2¢ —().4¢ ~40°Ce

 

 

 

ir. Standards 45, 35 (1950).

’ 2 y RV, R o - ~ 0 “truely
¢e K. C, Romeijn, Philips Research Repts. 8, 304 (1953), bv a Cut* cation. Measured values are ¢/a —=1.06 and 1.035 at 20°C and 700°C, respectively.

3 ¢ bs a1 site occupiec
f Extrapolated value for every O« tahedral site occup

es adi 252 (1951).

¢ E. F. Bertaut, J. phys. radium 12, 252 ( (1952).

b McGuire, Howard, and Smart, Ceram. Age 60, 22 os Yes (1936).
i E. J. W. Verwey and J. H. de Boer, Rec, Zig rp a
i L. Passerini, Gazz. chim. ital. 60, 754 (1930).


404 J. B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

This necessarily follows if there is covalent bonding in
the tetrahedral sites which resists a distortion of its
coordination angles.

The tetragonal symmetry in MnzOy4 v-MnsOs,
ZnMn,0y, CuFe.0yq, CuCr0y, CdIngOy, and Caln-0y
is believed due to the formation of an ordered system of
four coplanar, covalent bonds and two linear, ionic
bonds in the octahedral sites which are occupied by
Mn! Cull or In!!! cations. If the indate is inverse,
the indium ions which are in the tetrahedral sites bond
covalently ; those in the octahedral sites form an ordered
array of square bonds only if the bivalent ions also form
covalent bonds. The lattice is therefore cubic if the
bivalent cation is electrovalent. The tetragonal sym-
metry of metallic indium is also believed due to the
formation of a (dsp?) covalent bond.

Finally it is believed that there are no Mn** cations
in Mn3Oy4, v-MnyO3, and ZnMn,Os.

V. MAGNETIC EXCHANGE

A. Exchange Mechanisms

Three mechanisms, known as direct exchange, double
exchange, and superexchange, have been used to explain
the interaction between electron spins. These inter-
actions are based on the Pauli exclusion principle.
Direct exchange tends to align the net spin on neigh-
boring lattice elements antiparallel to each other. In
spinels cations are separated by anions without net spin
so that direct exchange is negligible.

Double exchange, as proposed by Zener,” requires the
transfer of electrons between two kinds of ions, par-
ticularly two of the same element but with different
charges, and hence is inhibited if these cations are
ordered. Double exchange tends to align spins parallel
to each other; also it produces a relatively high con-
ductivity.

Kramers suggested the third mechanism, called
superexchange. Superexchange is due to the admix-
ture of excited states with the ground state of a system
containing two like cations separated by an anion. The
excited states are the result of removing an electron
from the oxygen ion O° and placing it in an empty or
half-filled cation orbital. If the cation orbital is empty,
the transferred electron aligns its spin parallel to the net
spin already on the cation in accordance with Hund’s
rule. If the orbital is already half filled, the transferred
electron aligns its spin antiparallel to that of the
electron already there, and hence to the existing net
spin on the cation. The O'~ ion from which the electron
is transferred has a net spin which 1s antiparallel to that
of the removed electron. The net spin on the oxygen ion
is therefore antiparallel to the spin of the reduced
cation if the cation d shell was originally less than
half filled ; parallel, if the cation d shell was originally at
least half filled. These alignments are shown in Fig. 5.

 

9% (C. Zener, Phys. Rev. 82, 403 (1951).
“H. A. Kramers, Physica 1, 182 (1934).

oo 100

(a) (b)

CATION d SHELL AT

N d SHELL LESS
a LEAST HALF FILLED

THAN HALF FILLED

FiG. 5. Spin alignment in superexchange.

According to the superexchange model the net spin
on the O'= ion interacts directly with that of a neighbor-
ing cation on the other side. It was predicted, therefore,
that the two cations orient their spin parallel if their d
shells are less than half filled, antiparallel if the d shells
are more than half filled.

Kramers’ model is inconsistent in two ways with the
concepts of covalence in spinels which are proposed in
this paper. In the first place it was assumed that when
the cation d shell is at least half filled, any additional
electron will occupy a half-filled d orbital and align its
spin antiparallel to that existing on the cation. The
Pauli principle would indeed appear to predict such an
alignment. It should be recalled, however, that this
prediction is based on the supposition that there are no
unfilled orbitals available that are degenerate with the
3d orbitals. When a new electron is added to a cation,
it can either occupy an empty orbital or a half-filled one.
In the former case energy may be required to raise the
electron to the energy of the empty orbital, but this
energy may be offset when the new electron aligns its
spin parallel to the existing spin on the cation. In the
latter case no energy is required to raise the electron to a
higher level, but no exchange energy is gained, because
the electron now must align its spin antiparallel to the
existing spin. Therefore the spin alignment in super-
exchange depends on whether the exchange energy is
larger or smaller than the difference in energy between
d orbitals and the next level. It has been shown
that, because of covalent overlap, there are indeed
hybrid orbitals whose energy is about the same as that
of the filled, or partially filled, d orbitals. Therefore
superexchange would always produce parallel alignment
when hybrid cation orbitals are occupied because, in
effect, the d shell 1s extended by s and p orbitals of the
same energy and is therefore less than half filled.

In the second place Kramers assumed the transfer of
an electron from an oxygen ion to a cation. Somehow
this transferred electron must retain its identity as an
oxygen p electron since it is assumed that the spin on the
resultant O' lon remains antiparallel to that of the
transferred electron. Without covalence it is not at all
clear why an electron should be simultaneously identi-
fied with both a cation and an anion. On the other hand,
if the excited state of the system is covalent, this would
indeed be the case.

In crystals both sides of an O?~ p orbital may overlap
with an empty cation orbital. For coordinate covalence

 

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 405

the overlapping O° orbital and empty cation orbital
should be nearly degenerate. In ionic crystals this is not
the case for the ground state of the ion. However. if the
cation in an electrovalent crystal has a net spin ex-
change energy 1s gained if one of the two electrons in the
oxygen p orbitals is excited to become part of the cation
Since only one electron participates in this bond. the
bond is called “semicovalent.” “Semicovalence” is thus
defined as a bond due to the coupling of a single anion
electron to the net spin of a cation. Fe** and Mn+
which have been observed to favor tetrahedral sites in
the spinel lattice, are thought to be stabilized in these
sites through semicovalence. In Sec. ITIC, 1, the term
“partially covalent” was used to explain this stabili-
zation.

Obviously the electron that participates in semi-
covalence has a spin parallel to that of the cation. The
other anion electron therefore has a spin antiparallel to
the spin of that cation. This other electron may partici-
pate in semicovalence with a cation on the other side of
the anion. In that case the spins of the two cations would
be coupled antiparallel to each other. This model pro-
vides a mechanism for antiferromagnetic coupling
between two cations separated by an anion. This
mechanism is called ‘“‘semicovalent exchange.” Its
strength depends on the overlap between the O*~ p
orbitals and the cation orbitals, and therefore on the
cation-oxygen-cation angle. If semicovalence occurs
with one cation only, the interaction between the anion
and other cations is confined to direct exchange, and
weak ferromagnetic coupling may result.

In summary, since the superexchange model has only
been tested in the case of ferromagnetism and anti-
ferromagnetism (ferromagnetic coupling can be ex-
plained by other mechanisms, such as double exchange),
it is suggested that semicovalent exchange is a more
consistent model for the antiferromagnetic-exchange
interactions which have previously been attributed to
superexchange. There are three conditions which favor
semicovalent exchange: the formation of predominantly
electrovalent bonds, cations with empty hybrid orbitals
which overlap with a full anion p orbital, and a location
of interacting cations at opposite sides of an anion.

B. Magnetic Properties of Some Oxides

There are two exchange mechanisms which are im-
portant in predominantly electrovalent metallic oxides,
double exchange and semicovalent exchange. Double
exchange, which causes ferromagnetic alignment and
increased conductivity, occurs between cations of like
atoms, but different ionization, if they are randomly
distributed on equivalent lattice sites. In a spinel
lattice there is negligible double-exchange interaction
between tetrahedral- and octahedral-site cations. ;

Semicovalent exchange couples cation moments anti-
ferromagnetically. This coupling 1s strongest when the
cation-anion-cation bond is 180°. In the spinel lattice

neighboring octahedral cations make a 90° angle with
their common anion, and the semicovalent exchange
between them is small compared to that between the
tetrahedral and octahedral cations. These mechanisms
are applied below to several metal oxides, and in each
the semicovalent-exchange mechanism is compared
with superexchange.

It should be noted that cations which form coor-
dinate-covalent bonds do not participate in either
semicovalent exchange or double exchange. Such ions
are therefore paramagnetic.

1. Some Antiferromagnelic Crystals

In oxides which have cations in one valence state
only, double exchange cannot occur. If the metal is a
transition element, semicovalent exchange is possible.
Many such lattices are known to be antiferromagnetic.
A typical example is MnO which has the rock-salt
structure. Whereas superexchange would require the
formation of Mn*O!~ in an excited state, semicovalent
exchange couples the system antiferromagnetically
through electron pairs whose orbitals contain an ad-
mixture of excited Mn''O!! states.

It is interesting that the Curie points of manganous
compounds with the same rock-salt structure increase
with the substitution of anions of lower electronega-
tivity, »iz., MnO (122°K), MnS (165°K), MnSe
(247°K), MnTe (307°K).* Such a relation is consistent
with a model which predicts that the strength of the
antiferromagnetic coupling is increased as the admixed
excited states become more nearly degenerate with the
electrovalent ground state. It is consistent, therefore,
with both superexchange and semicovalent exchange.

If one compares the Curie points of the oxides of
Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni, all of which have the rock-salt
structure, a similar progression of Curie temperatures is
noted, iz., MnO (122°K), FeO (198°K), CoO (291°K),
NiO (523°K). On the basis of a superexchange model
this progression can be attributed to the progressive
increase in the ionization potential of the bivalent ion.
On the basis of a semicovalent model it may be attri-
buted to a progressive decrease in the energy of the hy-
brid (d%sp®) orbitals. The high Curie point of NiO
indicates that semicovalence has a significant stabilizing
effect on Nit in octahedral sites of 0%~ ions. Although
there is no normal covalence in the Ni**—O*" bond,
semicovalence is possible. The apparent preferance of
Nit for octahedral sites in the spinel lattice may
indeed be due to this stabilization. Further, this stabili-
zation may well explain the normal spinel structure of
Ge(Nip)O4 and Ge(Cos)O4 as contrasted with the olivine
structure of Ge(Mg,)Os. Since Mg**, Co®*, and Ni**
have comparable ionic radii, this difference in crystal
structure cannot be understood from any previous

model.

 

il H. Bizette, J. phys. radium 12, 161 (1951).


Ne

406 J. B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

2. Fe;04

Fe;O4 is an inverse spinel, Fet(Fe**Fe*)0,. The
interaction between the tetrahedral Fe®t ions and the
octahedral ions can be fully explained by semicovalent
exchange but only partially by superexchange. Accord-
ing to both models the tetrahedral Fe®" ions would
couple antiferromagnetically with the octahedral Fe"
ions. However, superexchange does not provide for the
Fe**— Fe? interaction since it applies only to inter-
actions between identical ions. Semicovalent exchange
corresponds to antiferromagnetic coupling in this case
also. Between the low-temperature transition and the
Curie point the spins on the octahedral sites are also
aligned parallel to each other through double exchange.
Therefore all the spins of the octahedral-site cations
are aligned parallel to one another and antiparallel to
those of the tetrahedral-site cations. In this temperature
interval both the superexchange and semicovalent-
exchange mechanisms provide for the ferromagnetism of
Fe;04. Below 119°K, however, the Fe and Fe?" cations
are ordered so that double exchange cannot occur. At
these low temperatures the superexchange model
provides no mechanism for a parallel alignment of all
the octahedral-site spins. Since Fe;O4 is ferromagnetic
below 119°K, the antiparallel alignment of all octa-
hedral-site spins with respect to the tetrahedral-site
spins, and the consequent parallel alignment of the octa-
hedral-site spins must be due to semicovalent exchange.
Semicovalent exchange provides the more adequate
model.

3. Mn;O4

It is proposed in this paper that the structure of
Mn;O4 is Mn?H(Mno!'1)O4. Elsewhere the structure
Mn*t(Mn**Mn*t)O4 has been proposed. Mn®**t in
tetrahedral sites is partially covalent. Mn! forms
square covalent bonds. Octahedral Mn?** and Mn**
would be ionically bound. In the Mn**(Mn?**Mn*t)Oy4
model Mn** octahedral-tetrahedral interactions would
be antiferromagnetic according to both superexchange
and semicovalent exchange. The (Mn®* tetrahedral)-
(Mn** octahedral) interaction cannot be treated with
superexchange, but semicovalent exchange predicts
antiferromagnetic exchange. Thus the structure
Mn?**(Mn**Mn*")O4 would be ferromagnetic just like
Feet (Fe Fe*t)O4. Yet down to 72°K Mn3;O4 has been
found to be paramagnetic.

In the structure Mn?**(Mn!'1)O, there would be no
octahedral-tetrahedral semicovalent exchange because
all octahedral-site cations are covalently bound. There
would be no double exchange because Mn** and Mn!!!
are ordered in different types of sites. Thus the model
Mn? (Mn, Oy is paramagnetic. Since Mn3O4 has been
found to be paramagnetic as low as 72K°, this observa-
tion supports the Mn?*(Mny''1)O,4 model in preference
to the Mn*t(Mn**Mn*")O4 model.

4. CuFe.O4

This spinel is partially inverse with the formula
Fe,Cui_a (CusnFes_2)04 as discussed in Sec. IV B, 2.
If Cu! forms square covalent bonds in the octahedral
sites, as is suggested in this paper to explain the
tetragonal structure of CuFe,Oy, then the octahedral
copper does not contribute to the magnetism.

Since the exchange between the octahedral- and tetra-
hedral-site cations is the only spin interaction of
significance in CuFe.0y, it is expected that the octa-
hedral-site spins, if they contribute at all to the mag-
netic moment, are parallel to one another and anti-
parallel to the tetrahedral-site spins. If Maus and Mus
are the atomic moments of tetrahedral-site and octa-
hedral-site copper respectively, where ps is a Bohr
magneton, then the magnetic moment per molecule of
CuFe;0s is | (2—2N)5+2AM,— (2N)5— (1—=2N)M ops
=| (1=2M)10—M + 2N(Mv+M.) |g. Pauthenet and
Bochirol® report 2.19us for the magnetic moment of a
CuFe,0; sample which had been quenched from a 700°C
anneal. Bertaut?” found that a similarly treated CuFe,Oy4
sample had an ordering parameter A=0.37. Although a
direct comparison between data from two different,
though similarly treated, samples is not strictly justified,
it is interesting that for A=0.37 the predicted magnetic
moment of CuFe;0y is (2.640.74M,—0.26M ;) ug which,
for Mo=1 and M,=0, is 2.3us(>2.19ug). It is reason-
able to assume, therefore, that the octahedral-site
copper ions do not contribute to the magnetic moment.

VI. SUMMARY

The covalent bond in spinels has been shown to
influence cation ordering, lattice distortions, and
magnetic-exchange interactions. Covalent bonding
modifies the Madelung-energy and geometrical cal-
culations of previous workers. Octahedral and square
covalent-bond formation are as significant as is tetra-
hedral-bond formation in determining cation ordering
in spinels. From only qualitative considerations it was
possible to predict nearly all the observed cation
distributions.

While orthorhombic distortion, as observed in Fe;Oy,
can be ascribed to cation ordering in octahedral sites,
tetragonal distortion is shown to be due to ordering of
the square bonds in octahedral sites. The two distortion
mechanisms are vastly different, as is evident from the
difference in transition temperature, thermal hysteresis,
etc. A certain minimum concentration of square-bond-
forming cations in octahedral sites must be exceeded
for the lattice to distort. Covalent bonds in tetrahedral
sites tend to hinder tetragonal distortion.

The structure of MnjO,; was found to be Mn?"
X (Mno'1)O4 rather than Mn?*t(Mn*tMnit)O4. The
tetragonal structures of metallic indium and the
indates are accounted for by the square-bond model.

2 R. Pauthenet and L. Bochirol, J. phys. radium 12, 249
(1951).

 

THE
ORY OF IONIC ORDERING 407

Semicovalence is defined as covalent bonding due to th

coupling of a single electron spin to the net spin on :
cation. This coupling leads to semicovalent exchan e :
mechanism producing antiferromagnetic ay oi
cation spins. The paramagnetism of Mn? (Mn,!11)0), is
explained on the basis of semicovalent exchange is
the magnetization of Fe;O4 below 119°K

APPENDIX I. THE INFLUENCE OF OXYGEN
(sp*)-ORBITAL HYBRIDIZATION ON THE
AXIAL RATIO OF TETRAGONAL SPINELS

In Sec. IIIB, it has been pointed out that the oxygen
p* orbitals in a spinel are instrumental in the formation
of covalent bonds between oxygen and its near neighbors
in octahedral sites. Where there are empty cation orbit-
als in tetrahedral sites the oxygen can be bound co-
valently to at least two octahedral and one tetrahedral
cation through the admixture of oxygen (sp*) orbitals
with the p* orbitals. The p* orbitals overlap strongly
with the empty orbitals in the octahedral sites but not
with those in tetrahedral sites while the set of (sp?)
orbitals that overlap strongly with a tetrahedral site
do not overlap as strongly with the octahedral sites as
do the p* orbitals. Therefore the admixture of oxygen
(sp®) wave functions with the p* wave functions in-
creases the amount of covalent bonding of oxygen with a
tetrahedral near neighbor but decreases the amount
of covalent bonding with the octahedral near neighbors.

It has been proposed that the tetragonal distortion of
many spinels is due to square covalent bonds in octa-
hedral sites. When covalent bonds are formed by one
oxygen with both octahedral and tetrahedral sites
through (sp?) admixture, the bonds are less covalent in
the octahedral sites than they would have been if no
covalent bonds with the tetrahedral ions existed.
Therefore the axial ratio of a tetragonal spinel is a
maximum when only the octahedral cations are co-
valently bound, and decreases with increasing amount
of covalence in tetrahedral sites.

This can be quantitatively shown as follows. The
amount of covalence in the octahedral sites due to
oxygen p-orbital overlap and that in tetrahedral sites
due to oxygen (sp)-orbital overlap is arbitrarily set at
unity. The amount of covalence in the octahedral sites
due to oxygen (sp*)-orbital overlap is given by 8(<1),
that in the tetrahedral sites due to p* overlap by the
very small fraction e. The wave function for the (sp?)
orbitals and the * orbitals are admixed in the ratio a:6,
where o?+482=1. The normalized mixed wave function
is then denoted by a(sp*)+B(p*). The amounts of co-

FABLE IV. Contributions of oxygen (sp?) and 7° orbitals to the
0 { i : | tes
covalence in tetrahedral and octahedral sites.

 

 

_ i =
Tetrahedral Octahed ral
sites sites
BE EE ————— — -
asp?) a
B(p?) Bre
= —
er

 

AXIAL RATIO

 

0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
FRACTION o OF OXYGEN (sp3) WAVE FUNCTION

Fic. 6. The axial ratio as a function of the amount of
admixture of oxygen (sp%) orbitals.

valence due to each term in the wave function is shown
in Table IV. [The physical properties are proportional
to the square of the wave functions; cross products
af (sp?) (p*) are neglected here. ] Therefore the amount
of covalence in octahedral sites is (a?6+?). The amount
of electrovalence is 1— (a26+82%). If it is assumed that
the bond length is a linear function of the amounts of
covalence and electrovalence, the following bond length
is then derived:

a’ = (a’+p%) a+ (1—a®— pc, (A.1)

where a is the covalent bond length in octahedral sites
in the absence of (sp®) admixture, and ¢ is the electro-
valent bond length in octahedral sites. The axial ratio
is then given by

c c
—= = —_, (A.2)
a (®+pB%) a+ (1—a®—pB%)c
In spinels in which there is no appreciable covalent
bonding in tetrahedral sites, such as Mn;0y, the axial
ratio has been observed to be ¢/a=1.16. The amount of
overlap of oxygen (sp?) orbitals with octahedral cation
orbitals is estimated to be about 70 percent of that of
oxygen p° orbitals with octahedral cation orbitals. On
the assumption that 6=0.8, the axial ratio is plotted in
Fig. 6 as a function of the admixture of oxygen (sp°)
orbitals.

For spinels like CdInsO4 and ZnMn,O4 an axial ratio
1.14 has been observed ; for Fig. 6 this is seen to corres-
pond to a=0.6, 3=0.8. It is significant that such a large
amount of admixture of (sp®) orbitals, and hence con-
siderable covalence in tetrahedral sites, only slightly
reduces the axial ratio. In fact pure (sp*) wave functions
for oxygen (a=1, 8=0) still allow enough covalence in
the octahedral sites for distortion to an axial ratio
¢/a=1.10.

APPENDIX II. CALCULATION OF THE TETRAGONAL
DISTORTION IN Fe;O, FROM AN IONIC MODEL

 

 

 

To calculate 8; and 8," of Eq. (IV.1), it is first neces-
sary to obtain 6; and 6," which, from the law of cosines,


408 J

TABLE V. Self-consistent calculation of A for Fe Oy.

 

 

 

A 01 0, € ¢ é 8’ A
1.020 1°57 0°20" 0.0469 0.0095 0.0247 0.004 0.0013
1.024 2°10" 0°" 0.0468 0.0095 0.0273 0 —0.0019

 

 

are given by
_ NHr-UtY
(NH D2(1+0— 1}
= + Np (== (1)?
costly = —mm8— ————
{D120 —D— 1}

The angles 6; and 6, then follow directly from the
geometrical relation

cos (01405) = (2X2 4-1)"1=cos (6'— 61’).

If (1490)2=1.0486, (1—{')*=0.9905, @*=0.75, then
the values listed in Table V follow where A=[d’—3}
X (1—e)? 4-[d2—3(14€)*]*—A(14-6—4’). The correct
value of A is that for which A=0, or A=1.022.

9
-

APPENDIX III. TETRAGONAL DISTORTION
IN Cd-In ALLOYS

Betteridge®® added small amounts of Cd to In and
observed the change in lattice parameter. At 100°C,

B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

14.5 atomic percent of Cd was soluble in In. The axial
ratio decreased from ¢/a= 1.068 for pure In to ¢/a=1.0
for 4.5 atomic percent Cd. At 20°C the solubility limit
of Cd was 4.5 atomic percent. Between pure In and the
solubility limit ¢/a decreased from 1.076 to 1.04.

Since the Cd atoms do not contribute to the square
covalent bonds, the addition of Cd to In adds vacancies
to the (dsp?) band. The tetragonal distortion, and
therefore the energy gap between the (dsp?) band and
the conduction band, is reduced. At 100°C and 4.5
atomic percent Cd enough covalent-band electrons have
sufficient energy to go into the conduction band so that
the covalent ordering is destroyed, and the lattice be-
comes cubic. At 20°C there are fewer covalent-band elec-
trons which are excited into the conduction band, and
the ¢/a ratio is higher, at all cadmium concentrations,
than it is at 100°C. At 4.5 percent Cd and 20°C the cova-
lent bonds are still strong enough to force the Cd out of
solution. The tetragonal symmetry is therefore pre-
served.

If the phase transition from tetragonal to cubic
symmetry occurs in 4.5 atomic percent Cd at 100°C, a
similar transition might be expected a few degrees
higher in pure In. The melting point of In is 156.4°C.%
Apparently the low melting point of In occurs below the
phase transition from tetragonal to cubic symmetry.

© Taylor Lyman, editor, Metals Handbook, 1948 Edition
(American Society for Metals, Cleveland, 1948).





