yad variety of excerpts which
ve compiled is intended for illustra-
tive purposes only. It is not intended to
~ convey a well-rounded picture of the
~ fantastic developments of these com-
puters by many leading companies and
_universities, applying them in all walks
~qoflife; == : |

 HELPFULNESS OF NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE

   
    

        
  

 
 

  
  
 

       
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

‘my request and the request of committee
staff from the invaluable files of the Na-
tional Library of Medicine. This library
is, in itself, a great national, yes, inter-
- national, asset, I may say.

- In President Eisenhower’s noble con-
~cept of United States-Russian scientific-
- medical cooperation for peace, I am sure
‘that the National Library will play a
particularly helpful role. ,
- Several excerpts are from Science
Newsletter, a most helpful reference

~ popular periodicals, then, are cited

- simply as examples of the tremendous

’;‘%_“ - revolution which, as I have indicated, is
Bt s SN OW-OCCUrrings i< noc.s :
. As I have indicated previously\to ‘the
- Senate, it is essential: :

. First. That the Federal Government

» get the maximum benefit of these com-
. puters; especially in those vital areas of
. our national life crucial to our survival,
- such as defense of the North American
et Continent, itself.

- Second., That the Federal Govern-
. ment, in particular its National In-
- stitutes of Health, cooperate with leading
- medical-scientific sources in applying
Eos these computers to help open up new
L frontiers in the preservation of human
. life, itself.

\
i
v
.

di l')

Third. That maximum encouragement

‘be given under our tax, labor, and other
laws, to private industry in utilizing com-

- puters more and more. Why? For the

TRy

8

e

-

- ~ free enterprise system. Efficiency and
e productivity are, of course, at the very
~ heart of the problem in raising still
higher our standards of living.

I send to the desk these excerpts and
ask unanimous consent that they be
printed in the Appendix of the RECORD.

There being no objection, the excerpts
were ordered to be printed-in the RECORD,
asfollows:

[From the Saturday Evening Post of May 31,
1958

e % MagIiC EYES FOR MEDICINE
' (By Dr. V. K. Zuorykin)

Already, the electronic and medical pro-
fessions have recognized the need and are
working together on an increasing scale to
remove the language barrier that has sepa-
rated them, and to work out new techniques
that can be applied on a broad front to
everyday needs of the practicing physician,
The various groups engaged in the mutual
effort include professional societies such as
the Institute of Radio Engineers, the Ameri-
can Institute of Electrical Engineers, and
the Instrument Society of America, and re-
search .institutions such as the Rockefeller
Institute for Medical Research, the Johnson
_ 0 Foundation of the University of Pennsyl-

vania, and the National Institutes of Health.
Industry, too, is helping through the estao-
lishment of medical electronics scholarships
at Stanford and Columbia Universities,

 

"-’The

 Several of these excerpts have come at -

purpose of helping to secure greater effi--
Reoe ciency and productivity in our dynamic

- ess,

     
 
    
  

     

o T A
; N E Feh3
gt < -

situation facin 1i
sion in our expanding society is

e

  

commerce and industry, the answer is sought
in the use of electronic data-processing sys-
tems to handle inventory control, billing and
other routine paperwork, and in the appli-

cation of electronic sensing and control de-

vices which guide the flow of production in
response to instructions from punched cards
or magnetic tape. There can never be an
electronic substitute for the skill of the
trained physician, but electronic alds can

- help to handle some of the routine func-

tions which frequently distract him from
the more important duties requiring his
special talents in diagnosis and treatment.
How can this be accompll;hed? There is
a clue in the pioneering efforts now under-
way to apply electronic data-processing fech-

niques to the classification and storage of

new medical knowledge relating to certain
classes of diseases, so that the information
may be made quickly available on a selective
basis to the physician who needs 1t. A proj-
ect of this type, concerned with the blood

~diseases, is being carried out by Drs. Martin.

‘Lipkin and Ralph Engle, of New York Hos-
pital, and Dr. Baruch J. Davis, of Mount
Sinal Hospital in New York, in cooperation
with the electronic data processing division
of RCA. r

There is a further clue in some of the elec=-
tronic devices that now are employed in
specialized medical functions, such as par-
ticle counting and the measurement of
oxygen in the blood stream. Putting these
various possibilities together, we can arrive
at a dream of our medical future—perhaps

- 20 years or so from not. * * * ‘

In this dream future, a complete personal
record for yourself and all your fellow cit-

izens is kept, with your consent, at a cen- '

tral medical file for your county, State or
Nation. Similar centralized files form re-
positories of up-to-date knowledge concern-
ing human illnesses, their symptoms, and
their reactions to vatrious drugs and treat-
ments. All this information is classified
and stored on punched cards, magnetic tape
or microfilm, as in our present-day com-
‘puters and data-handling systems, avail-
able to your personal physician upon request
by telegraph or teletype. ¢

When you. arrive at your doctor’s office
or at your local hospital for an annual
checkup or with some complaint, the stand-
ard questions which today take wup too
much of the doctor’'s time are put to you
by a magnetic-tape player. You punch out
your ‘“yes” and ‘“no’, - answers on a small

keyboard, under —the supervision of -the-

nurse or technician. Then you are escorted
through a series of electronic measurements
of items such as height, weight, and reflexes,
while your blood count and other chemical
analyses are performed by high-speed elec-
tronic equipment. At the end of the proc-
which has consumed only a short
amount of your time and none of the phy-
sician’s, all the information has been re-
corded in duplicate on a punched card, mi-
crofilm, or tape. One copy of this record
is transmitted automatically to the central
file, where it is compared electronically with
your previous record. The most significant
changes are noted automatically, and trans-
mitted within a few minutes back to the
doctor’s office or clinic. '
Thus, when you are ready for your per-
sonal interview with your physician he al-
ready has before him extensive data regard-

ing your present physical condition and

the changes which have taken place since
your preceding physical examination. In
many cases, this, along with a brief per-
sonal examination, may enable the physi-
cian te give you a clean bill of health, to
prescribe treatment, or to recommend fur-
ther tests not included in the standard ex-
amination routine. In more complex cases

g the medical profes-
something
like that which faces commerce and indus-.
try when the workload ‘rises more rapidly-
than the supply of available manpower. 2x

ith your recorded symptoms a:
ommended treatment, o
based on the accumulated medical
edge of the time. Thus, electronics alds
your physician to get at the root of you
trouble more rapidly, with a reduced ex-
penditure of his own time. ey - :

This, it must be emphasized, is simply a
dream--yet it is a dream based upon elec-
tronic techniques which we know to be
practical, and upon a need which increases
with each passing year. Perhaps through &
system such as this, combined with a great
extension of electronic techniques in medi-
cal research, medicine and electronics to-
gether are destined to shape for all of us
a healthier, more bountiful future,

 

[From Franklin Institute Journal of 1956,
vol. 261, pp. 587-588]

ELECTRONIC COMPUTER HELPS DETECT CANCER 2
CELLS

An electromnic scanning and computing de-
vice which can perform.some functions of
the human eye and brain to distinguish be-
tween normal and cancer cells was disclosed
recently.at the opening session of the Insti-
tute of Radio Engineers 4-day annual con-
vention. The device, called a cytoanalyzer,
scans the microscope images of the cells, au-
tomatically corts them in its “mind” accord-
ing to their characteristics, and classifies
them as normal or suspicious. =

W. E. Tolles, H. S. Sawyer, and R. C. Bos- z

‘trom, of Airborne Instruments Laboratory,

told fellow engineers at the Waldorf-Astoria
Hotel that the instrument could collect and
record in a matter of minutes more cell
measurements than a technician using the
usual manual methods could obtain in as
many months. The device is part of a larger
instrument for automatic screening of slides
for the early detection of cancer now being
developed at Airborne Instruments Labora-
tory under the sponsorship of the American
Cancer Soclety and the National Cancer In-
stitute of the United States Public Health
Service.

The cytoanalyzer consists of a scanning ele-
ment which converts. the cell images into
electrical signals, and a computer which ap-
plies rules of logic, much as a technician
would, to recognize true cell signals and re-
Ject signals that have no diagnostic value.
The accepted signals are then recorded on an
electronic graph that in effect sorts the indi-
vidual cells according to their characteris=-
tics. - )

~This computer technique is expected to b
prove helpful also in obtaining information
about the growth of cells and the functioning
of the heart and brain.

 

[From National Safety News of 1956, vol. 73,
p.110]
RADIOACTIVE FALLOUT COMPUTER DEVELOPED BY
NBS

A special-purpose computed that gives the
geographical fallout paftern of radioactivity
resulting from a nuclear explosion has been
developed by the National Bureau of Stand-
ards. Given the necessary weather data to-
together with certain information about the
bomb, this analog computer will assist in pre-
dicting what the distribution and intensity
of radioactivity will be on the ground after
the bomb has been detonated.

 

[From New York Herald Tribune of May 4,
1958]

RoBOT READS, ABSTRACTS 2,300 WORDS IN 3
MINUTES . :

: (By Earl Ubell) :

Dr. H. P. Luhn inserted a roll of magnetic

tape into the big International Business Ma- A
chines computer. On it in the form of elec- .
trical signals were 2,326 words or an article ‘
from The Science American on hormones of