SELIMINARY
PROGRAM

WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 8

8-10 Pelle

THURSDAY,
JANUARY 9

9 a.m.

9:30 delle

11:15 delle
11: 1,0 Aaglle

1.

24

for the District I Convention of the American College Public Relations
Association, January 8, 9, and 10, 1958, at the Somerset Hotel and M.I.T.

Registration, recettion, and studio party at WGBH-TV, 84 Massachusetts
Avenue, Cambridge. WGBH-TV and the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broad-
casting Council will entertain the Convention. Up to 120 members can
be accommodated as studio audience for "I've Been Reading," with Profes-
sor P. Albert Duhamel of Boston College and Volta Torrey of M.I.T. at
9:30 p.m.

Registration in the foyer of Kresge Auditorium, M.I,.T.

A general session on current scientific events and their implications
for all colleges and universities, in the Little Theater, Kresge.

Dr, Elbert P. Little, Executive Director of the Physical Science Study

cormittee, on the Committee's project for improving high school physics
and on its possible effects on the students available to colleges.

Dr. H. Guyford Stever, Professor of Aeronautical Engineering and Associate
Dean of the M.I.T. School of Engineering, on the challenge of rockets
and Sputniks and the problems of American leadership in this field.

Alexander G. Korol of the 1M.I.T. Center for International Studies,
author of "Soviet Education for Science and Technology," on science,
scientific education, and science public relations in the U.S.S.R.

Dr. George R. Harrison, Dean of the M.I.T. School of Science, on the new

role of science in our daily lives and on its implications for all in-
stitutions of higher education. |

 

Coffee in the Kresge Auditorium foyer.
Four concurrent sessions:

The M.I.T. Computation Center, an introduction designed especially for
representatives of colleges participating in the New England Colleges

and Universities Cooperative Program by Professor Philip M. Morse, Di-
rector of the Center. (Since facilities are limited, representatives

of participating colleges will have priority in attendance; these col-
leges include Amherst, Bates, Bennington, Boston College, Boston Univer-
sity, Bowdoin, Brandeis, Brown, University of Connecticut, Dartmouth,
Goddard, Harvard, University of Maine, University of Massachusetts, Mid-
dlebury, Mount Holyoke, University of New Hampshire, Northeastern, Unive
ersity of Rhode Island, Tufts, University of Vermont, 'lellesley, Vesleyan,
Williams, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and Yale. Others will be
accommodated if space permits.)

A session on college movies, film strips, and slides, featuring new
films shown and described by their sponsors. Frank He. Conant, Manager
of the M.I.T. Photographic Service, in charge of arrangements. (NOTE:
This session was originally set for 9 a.m, on Friday and has recently
been changed; it is the one referred to as Friday morning in the general
information sheets.)


AELIMINARY
PROGRAM

- Page 2
3e

L.

1s 15 Pelle

3 Pelle
Le

2

5:30 Pelle

6:45 Pelle

FRIDAY,
JANUARY 10

9 a.m,

 

Open house=-clinic at WGBH=TV.

Concurrent sessions at 11:40 a.m. Thursday, January 9 (continued):

An informal meeting for newcomers in college public relations, conducted
by Walter L. Milne, Assistant to the Director of Public Relations at M.I.T.

A number of members of the station staff
will be on hand to discuss programming, production, publicity, and other
problems associated with television activities - both commercial and
educationals Peter linn, Director of Public Relations for WGBH-TV, host.

Luncheon at the M.I.T. Faculty Club, Sixth Floor, 50 Memcrial Drive,
Cambridge.

James Ro, Jordan, National President of A.C.P.R.A. and Director of Univer-
sity Relations at the State University of Iowa, will speak on "The People
vs. Educational Public Relations: Court of Public Opinion, 1965."

(
Two concurrent sessions: =

The lively arts in the news, a discussion of how to publicize the role of
and other "cultural" subjects in a college education.

Among the speakers will be:

Albert Bush-Brown, Assistant Professor of Architectural History, M.I.T.

William G. Dooley, Head of the Division of Education, Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston.

Bartlett H., Hayes, Jr., Director of the Addison Gallery of American Art
at Phillips Academy, Andover,

An informal session on sports publicity, arranged by W. Henry Johnston of
Harvard and Ernest A. Roberts of IM.I.T. (and the Boston GLOBE).

Arthur D, Little, Inc., will entertain members of District I A.C.P.R.A.
and their guests at a reception in the Regency Room, Somerset Hotel,
LOO Commonwealth Avenue, Boston.

Banquet in the Regency Room.
District I will award its annual citation.

Dr. Fred L. Whipple, Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
and Professor of Astronomy at Harvardy will discuss from his recent per-
sonal experiences some new aspects of the interrelationships between
scientists and the press.

The annual business meeting of District I, in the Little Theater of Kresge
Auditorium,

W. Noel Johnston, Executive Director of A.C.P.R.A., will report on develop-
ments in national headquarters.

Charles A, Hall (University of Rhode Island) and Howard S. Curtis (Brown
University) will present the report of the Committees on By-Laws.

Stephen A. Kezerian (Yale University) will report for the Nominating Com-
mittee.

The Resolutions Committee will make its annual reports

And there will be time for any other business which may come before the
house,


LIMINARY
PRCGRAM
« Page 3

9:45 elle

11:00 aeme

11:15 a.m,
1.

2e

3

12:30 peMe

 

Sessions on Friday, January 10, 1958 (continued):

A discussion of current issues in education and the problems of publicity

“which they involve, by leading Education Editors from New England and New

Yrrk, in the Little Theater of Kresge Auditorium.
Coffee in the foyer of Kresge Auditorium.
Three concurrent sessions:

A report on three development activities of special interest to New Eng-
land colleges:

The organization and operation of the Fund for Harvard College will be
described by Frank A. Pemberton, Assistant Director--Public Relations of
the Fund.

 

campaign.

Late news on 1957 operations and 1958 plans from the New England Colleges
Fund, Inc,

"How to Handle the College Newspaper," a report by Professor Arthur Mus-
grave of the University of Massachusetts, with contributions by selected
District I members and discussion from the floor.

A commentary on New England college publications by Gecrge A. Adams, lec=
turer in design zt the London School of Printing and Graphic Arts. (NOTE:
This session was originally set for 11:40 Thursday and is so mentioned in
the general information sheets, )

Buffet luncheon in the Campus Room of the M.I.T. Graduate House.

FCR FURTHER INFORMATION or to make SUGGESTIONS for this program, please
write to John I. Mattill, Director of Publications, Room 7-221, M.I.T.,
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts = telephone UNiversity L=-6900, exte 2697.
We!ll be delighted to change schedules (if we can) and/or add features
for which there is demand,


