METCO~5 M.L.T. Computation Center
Minutes of March 6, 1956 liceting

Persons Present: D. N. Arden Be Rankin
F. B. Hildebrand  P. M. Morse © ° I+ Vorzub

After a brief discussion of the meeting of the Institutional Representatives
which was held on March 2, 1956, the group discussed possible means for
financing the "operations staff". Specifically, a number of the present users
of Whirlwind will be gpproached in the near future for financial contributions
which will, in effect, iasure that their work is properly hanaied in the
computation center.

Verzuh pointed out that the present method of purchasing time on the
-Whirlwind Computer should be wevised to eliminate the "guaranteed rate"
clauge -- effective July 1, 1956. If a single flat rate of $250 per hour
were used, this would eliminate much of the bSokkSeping associated with the
charging” in the case.of -Instrimentation Laboratory » etc., the flat rate

- should be more equitable. It was agreed that this should indeed be done.

A brief discussion was made of the available funds in DIC Project 6345
and the intended tapering=-off activities during the next fiscal period.
As a result of the limitations of avallable funds, it was decided that
Kr. Leonard Roberts would have to be removed from the DIC 6345 payroll
at the end of this fiscal period since he is working full time for the.
Hathematics Department, although his salary is being paid by DIC 6345.
The advisability of continuing Monroe Weinstein and Murray Watkins as Research
Assistants in the EE Department (paid for by DIC 6345 was raised.) After some
discussion, it was agreed that the decision depend on the availability of funds,
their performance during the spring tem, and their perscnal plans dictated
by military service in the particular case of Weinstein.

It was agreed that the monthly staff luncheon would be held at the
Faculty Club at 12:00 noon on Tuesday, March 13. The expected attendance
‘s approzimately 15 people consisting of P. M. Morse, ¥F. M. Verzuh,

B, Rankin, . eight people of the Whirlwind staff, and four of the Statistical
Services group.

The need for some sort of duplicating machine for use on extra SHARE
programs was discussed. Currenitly,use is being made of the Copease machine
in Statistical Services. However, it was pointed cut that the ozalid machine
in R.L.E., Nuclear Science, or D.A.C.L, Ign he used.

The next sewiisg oF this group will be held in Room 6-109 at 2: 00 P.M.
on Tuesday, March 13, 18586,

¥F, i, Verzuh
V:nb March 13, 1956


