o LT ST = 5 R R ST s T AR e R M =
T, W S e TeF3a o 1 ~— e e

T e g T Fa N = Ny f o
: R o T
SN Pcsr S s v b’
L o Yy R o " o “j

v 2 r ;‘; 8 e 24 bW RS

. o3 RV -

BN o -

!
«T, Alan T. Waterman 2

throughout the year, whenever we have time., Last swumer we tried
gak:nsonm t high school seniors, Next summer we'd like
0 try more.

2e » About 150 research
mwt%mu ¢ will average nearer
gr::mmmnnﬂm.tom% Ak -
0 its own scheduling bookkeeping an we can spec
input equipment which will enable ue to comnect directly from
experiment to machine, without humen transeription., We caleulated
mmk :::atl. we are computing weather, tlu -mmbhl\’ c:cuu

. nuclear scattering; every problem needed lanning
the aicuhtm. Ve are cod the machine to play cheass, .;3

helping teat out machine translation from German to English and will
be engaged in

| teaching the 704 to read blueprints as soon as ws can
buy the equipment to attach to our CRO cutput. One third «&
present 150 research problems are for people at the other New sngland
universities, Dartmouth, Brown, Boston College, Harvard. We could
do more if we had more staff; we may have to do less unless we can
Zet your support again next year.

erive S-S 10 A smuicly pmepn a1 oo
s

ue
of the work on it; or else the welll do in
the language translation project; or else the simulation of the
mea-amnmwm,ormmzw
pmm-tugnmw&eamm(mtumdm of course, is
aritimetic). But I wouldn't like to do this, for i would frecsze
the staff, or part of it, to that specific project, and I much
refer having gn avellable to help anyone who comes in with a
. ttmumnMWMumtaumammothu
involved can go out to get money for a proved-out ioot and our
staff can turn to helping someone else wtthabrigﬁ:od o That's
the way wore than half our good projects start.

4., Or we can charge every person who comes to use the
machine, for staffl consulting time including all the N3P projects,
hereabouts, which need machine time. And this I like least, for
1t will be toughest on the poor thesis students and faculty members
from the small colleges -- and these people are likely to have more
bright ideas than the big projects who can afford the charge. I
figured it out, the charge would come to 100 per hour of machine
time, or wore. This would add to the budget of quite & few NP
projects.

Of course I could Jjust say, "Look, I've rum a good many
research projects and I think I know how to get results in terms of
research gutput and trained men, I've started & few labs and