188

This is not the case for either solution obtained with
Whirlwind I. When the curves cross each other, the
expression {(e/e)—1} changes its sign, and (vo*—7?)
in Eq. (20) then also changes sign. This would indicate
a shift in the center of the absorption band, »o, with
thickness. Krautkraemer observed such a shift for gold
deposits thinner than 72A. He chose the set (1,ks) for
the thicker deposits because those values resembled the
values of the massive metal. His choice of the set
(11,k2) for the thinner films was based on the fact that
values of R and 7T calculated with the aid of the Garnett
theory,"! using reasonable assumptions, gave good
agreement with his measured values of R and 7.

At zero deposit thickness the optical constants be-
come indeterminate; the derivates of » and & with re-
spect to R and T calculated by Whirlwind I do increase
with decreasing thickness, thus demonstrating this
indeterminacy.

SUMMARY

A program has been developed for Whirlwind I, an
electronic digital computer at M.I.T., to calculate the
optical and electrical constants of thin metal films on
nonabsorbing thick backings, as functions of observed
reflectances and transmissions. With this program two
sets of optical and electrical constants have been com-
puted for numerous films.

Approximate equations have been developed for the
infrared to obtain the optical and electrical constants
conveniently. The conductance per square of a metal
film is the most important physical property deter-
mining the optical behavior of such a film. The optical

n7. C. M. Garnett, Trans. Roy. Soc. (London) 203A, 385
(1904).

L. HARRIS AND A. L. LOEB

Vol. 45

constants of such thin films do not equal each other in
the infrared. The conductance of bismuth films was ob-
served to increase with increasing wavelength. This
observed variation was shown to be consistent with that
computed on the basis of an electronic relaxation time
r~10~1 sec, which is somewhat smaller than that ob-
served for massive metals. Films of silver and aluminum
were observed to split into two classes. One class con-
tains films of low dc conductivity: these films displayed
a decrease in conductivity with an increase in wave-
length. This behavior is thought to be due to condenser-
like imperfections. The other class consisted of films of
high dc conductivity, with no appreciable change in con-
ductivity with change in wavelength. These films dis-
played no condenser effect, and no observable relaxation
effect. This means that their 7 is less than 107" sec.
The product of relaxation time 7 and electron con-
centration 7o can be found from dc measurements.
When the relaxation time is found from optical measure-
ments, the electron concentration can be calculated.
For bismuth this was found to be ~10* cm™. For the
aluminum and silver films of the second class the prod-
uct #.r was at least an order of magnitude larger than
that of bismuth films. Since the infrared measurements
indicate that 7 for the good conductor films is less than
that of the poor conductor films, the measurements
show that 7, is about one hundred times as great for
the good conductors as for bismuth.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

We gratefully acknowledge the technical assistance
of Miss Janice K. Richmond and of the staff of the
Digital Computer Laboratory. Availability of Digital
Computer Laboratory time for this problem was made
possible by the Office of Naval Research.

R ———