MASSACHUSETTS 1NST|TUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICE OF THE PROVOST

Mr. F. M. Venuh, Dix-actor
Office of statistical Sex-vie»
Roam 7-305, 1-1.1.1‘.

®
\P
W

Dear Frank !

Thanks very much for your mm of the 30th on the office
01‘ Statistical Sex-via”. It is 1 thoughtful sutemanb
of the problems invalveé in the contemplated move ta
Building. 20, and unha pily 1 must: concede that most of
your arguments are we 1~tltkexz.

This is one of then difficult problems or administration

for which up aclution is wholly satisfactory. and tho boat

that one can do is to try to minimize ﬁne damage. In

my final deciaion to go enema with the move I aavo been
dad, as you 1mm, by «ruin longa’serm plan: for the

utilization cf these central buildings which give first

priority to educational activities - and particularly to

undergraduate eduo mien.

 

I am very cognianni or the additiana‘i inconveniences that
these changes may can“ to the users of your Services, but:

I am confident that as the natal-ever the problem is mado
clear to cum administrative officers, you will find complete
coaperation in an effort to make the plan work. Your memo

.13 most helpful in drawing attention to specific airficultios

that will have to b. iraned out.

There is only one oonoluaion in your mom) that I fuel it
necessary is reconsider: {in Fago 5 you inﬁiaate that each
administrative office should provide its mm courier and
transportation medium. I fear that this would 031155 a
considerable amount of duplication and would prove
imracticabie. As a workabis alternative I believe that
the 0.3.33. should employ a full—time messenger with a
suitable means of transporting; the material. ‘witi'n proper
scheduling 1 imgina that he would be able to meat; the
requirements of all users of the Examines. The costs would,


.SSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
JFFICE OF THE PROVOST

[C3
@
P
V

be.

of course, be panama on to the user. through an. rate
BKPLIG tam.

Let me assure you again, as I did in cur conversation
last week, that there is no change whataoaver in our
wvaluation of the importance or a central computing
service, anﬂ we propose to proooqﬁ with the enlarged
development of this center in lupgort of roaoaroh as
rapidly as funds become available.

1 am most appreciacivo or your oxpreaaed desire to make
the best of the present situation and te contributa ta
the longer rnngo dovelapmont af the center.

Sincerely,

a. A. Strattoa
Vice President and Prevent
JAS/E
cc: Mr. Snyder
Professor Morse v/

Mr. MacKinnon
Mr. Little


