Mirnutes of the Eighth Meeting of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Comgutetion A

ensuing interim between now and the first of July 1952, he felt
tney could make arrangements so that tne extra fifty percent of
tne anslyzer's time would be made available to the Institute
end to other projects with the assistance and advice of the Com-
mittee. It was felt that precedents could be set up concerning
those projects for which transfer of funds was needed snd those
researches waich could be given the use of the mschine without
charge, It was suggested that we work these precedents up
mutvally as the exemples cawme along. This general proposal
seemed quite satisfactory to the Committee, and HMorse indicated
that he would mentlon this discussion to Dr. Stratton, empha-
slzing, however, that Draper had not reacaed & finsl decision
concerning these guestions.

- In answer to another query, Laning and Draper felt that
Verzuh could be relieved of his responsibilities concerning the
differential analyzer this next term. They felt it was wise to
glve Verzuh time to get his doctor's thesls under wsy, and felt
that the Spring Term of this year might be tae best time to do
50 .

Horse mentioned a possible commercial use for the differ~
entiel analyzer which had come to the attention of Professor
Den Hirtog. Arrangements were made to confer with the repre-
sentetives of this company to see whether the project was ons
merlting work on the mzcanine.

Morse reported a coming meeting zt Princeton concerned with
training for the use of computing machines. He asked that the
menbers of the Committes maeke suggestions on possible subjects
for discussion at this meeting. Tihe thesis proposal of Salzer
was dlscussed. It was agreed that MHorse would write to Brown,
sayling tnat the Commlttee recommended Salzer's thesis be ap-
proved by the Electrical Engineering Departwent, &nd that £0pal,
being on the thesls committece, would keep in touch with the
work., The Committee also discussed the proposal for a labora-
tory course in digital couputers to be given this coming term
by HMr. Adams. It was egreed tnat Morse should write the Elec-
trical Engineering Department recoumending that this course be
given as a special problem course this coming term, the possi-
bility for permanent course number being taken up later,

The next weeting of the Committee will be some time the
first weekx of the second term, It was cgreed thzt the Com-