The Application of Digital Computers

——— ——— e e e e e e e e e R —

Opportunities and Needs

Environment and New Facilities - M.I.T. has long been in the fore-
front in the development of computing equipment and in developing
ways whereby this equipment ean help solve problems in a wilde
variety of fields. In the mid-30's Vannevar Bush bullt here the |
first differential analyzer and several faculty members, in various
departments, used 1t to solve problems in engineering, mathematlcs,
and physics, which could not otherwise be solved. In the past

four years Whirlwind I, one of the first truly high-speed digltal .
computers to get into operation, has been made avallable for more
than 1/3 of its time for the solution of general scientific prob-
lems. Problems from many fields, sponsored by members of all the
different departments at the Institute, have been put on the
machine. The programming research staff of Whirlwind has gained
experience in adapting the computer to this varilety of problems

and the faculty at the Instlitute has begun to learn, by actual
doing, the ways in which the computer can help them solve their
problems.

Beginning in 1957, the computing facilities at M.I.T.
will be enlarged and reorganized into a Computation Center, to be
devoted entirely to unclassified scientific research and educatlon.
I.B.M. is donating one of its new TO4 computers with double the
usual storage units and with appropriate auxiliary equipment, and
will provide for the maintenance of the equipment; the Cenfer will
be housed in the new K. T. Compton Laboratory Bullding according
to agreement with I.B.M,, the equipment will be used ten hours a
day (on the "midnight shift") by I.B.M., will be available up to
seven hours a day to faculty members from other colleges in New
England and the remainder of the time (seven plus hours) will be
available for use by students and staff of M.I.T. for baslic re-
search. The programming research staff, at present working with
Whirlwind, will be transferred to the Center, to serve as a nucleus
for planning machine use and for developing new technigues of
machine application.

Nature of the Research - Exploitation to the full of the potentl-
alities of new piece of equipment can most effectively be accom-
plished by an advance on two fronts: the solving of speclfic problems
and the development of techniques. In the case of computing machines,
regearch workers in many fields should learn machine programming
technigques and then proceed to use the machine to help them solve
their own problems. In many cases they can develcp the programs

they will need for their work, but in some cruclal cases they wilil
need the help of those persons interested primarlly in machlne
operation, who are interested wmore in developing machine techniques
than in solving individual problems.,

This division of labor has been necessary in many other
scientific advances. The recent great progress 1in nuclear physics