Third Draft
Corbato Version

Mr, M. Loren Bullock
IBM Corporation
M., I.T, |

| Dear Loren;

The Center staff in developing a tion shariag system for the IBM 7090
computer has come to the conclusion that certain machine modifications are
essential for the success of the project. The requirements for time-sharing
system will first be discussed in a general way and then a specific proposal
of modifications will be made. Although the proposal is considered to be
a fully satisfactory one and reasonable to implement and use, it should not
be considered the unique way to satisfy the desired requirements. Rather the
proposal should be considered as specimen which exhibits the various Foquire.
ments wo attendant difficulties which must be solved.

It 18 expected that all programs ox time-snared users of the computer
will be operated under the direction of a supervisory program. The latter
program will be responsible for periodically starting and stopping each
user program in a sequential fashion. Due to core memory space limitations,
user programs will usually have to occupy different memory locations each
time they are operated. User programs when operated must be unable to
transfer to or store words in other programs outside of their allotted
memory regioll.. However, the supervisory program, which is assumed to be
completely debugged, should be able to transfer to or reference any location
in memory. It is assumed that all trap locations will be in the supervisory
program, Finally, to prevent a user program from giving input-output
commands which disturb other programs it appears convenient that input-
output commands only be initiated in the supervisory program; thus the user
program enters supervisory program subroutines to accomplish input-output.

The above requirements can be satisfied by ‘he following proposed
modifications:

1, There should be a memory protection mode added. When out of the
memory protection mode (normally set by the reset button), the 7090 behaves
in the usual manuer and relocation and boundary registers {(Jdeserived below)
are ignored. Vhen in the memory protection mode, memory protection traps
may occur and the relocation register is operative. The mode is entered
by @& special instruction

TRP X (transfer and enter protect mode)
which causes transfer of control to X end entry into the memory protection

mode, The mode is left whenever any trap occurs, (It would be convenient
for using system subroutines, but not essential, if a TSX~like instruction


Mr. M, Loven Bullock ~~ Page March 17, 1961

were available which would cause a trap distinguishable from 2 memory

protection trap.) In particular input-output commands can only be initiated
when out of the memory protection Xzap mode but once initiated will procede
regardless of the mode status of the relocation and boundary registers.

2. A poi ‘of boundary rogiaters should be provided which shen fn the
memory protection mode will cause 2 memory protection trap either if an |

input-output instruction is encountered or if transfers or effective addresses
reference out of the unprotected memory region, The unprotected region of

memory is defined by the contents of the boundary xy registers. The trap

| should occur before execution of the instruction initiating the trap. The

boundary registers should be only out of the memory protection mode by
special instructions: if these instructions are executed in the memory
protection mode, the effect should be either a NOP or a trap. (Instructions
for reading exmz are also desirable although not essential.) The contiguous
region of unprotected memory should be capable of being of any length and
located at any region in memory. There is no fundamental objection to
quantizing the bounds but it is felt that the smallest domain should be no
larger than 256 words, If the bounds are guantized, transfers or memory

~ references from one domain in the unprotected region to another domain in
the unprotected reglon should not cause a rap, i

hasan AEA .

3. A relocation register ‘should he provided euch irk that the contents
are indexed into each effective memory address (in addition to the ususl

index registers). (There is no major programming difference if the relocation

register and boundary registers are combined into a base register and range
register combination.) With respect to setting, reading, and quantizing
the relocation register, the same considerations apply as for the boundary
registers. If at all possible, the execution of 7080 instructions in the

& memory prukmgtimus protection mode should not require any more cycles than
when out of the mode.

4, A core storage clock and interval timer should be available for the
supervisory program to rotate among user programs, The clock and timer
described in RPQ F89349 appear to be adequate for the requirements.

5. The ut modifications proposed should not preclude further RPQ
requests, but it 1s unlikely that any further requests will so intimately
affect the 7090 logic.

The above requirements and modifications have been arrived at after
considerable study of the 70890 system diagrams and the programming
necessities of an effective time-sharing system. We will be glad to discuss
at greater length either the hardware or the programming considerations
involved,

Sincerely,

Philip M. Morse
Director

cc: F. J. Corbate, J. McCarthy, lM. Minsky, H. Teager


