104 J. H. GIESE AND H. COX-IN [V0]. XI, No. 1

The initial values of A and A’ depend, of course, on the original velocity and orientation

of l.
The prototype planes through the origin satisfy

u.’(;t)ri = 0- (3 .8)

Join the velocity ﬁeld (3.5), (3.8) to uniform ﬂows at both ends. Let s be any streamline
not on (3.1) which does not intersect the envelope of the prototype planes, deﬁned by

r.- = TM“), ”J“; = mu? = 0, mm = 1. (3.9)

Such streamlines exist if (3.1) and (3.9) do not intersect. As the second wall of the trough,
also composed of plane and conical segments, choose the cone through 8 with vertex P.
A special example of this type of ﬂow can easily be derived from a Prandtl—Meyer ﬂow.
Retain as one side of the trough the plane walls of the original boundary, and use a
conical stream sheet for the other wall.

4. A conical simple wave. Insert a half plane into a uniform supersonic ﬂow at a
moderate angle of attack, and make the angle between the leading edge and the un-
disturbed velocity greater than the Mach angle, On one side there will be a swept Prandtl-
Meyer ﬂow around the leading edge. On the other there will be an attached plane shock
wave behind which there will be uniform ﬂow (supersonic if the angle of attack is not
too large) parallel to the half plane. Throughout the entire ﬂow the component of velocity
parallel to the leading edge is constant. Introduce a coordinate system with origin on the
leading edge, z-axis parallel to the undisturbed velocity, yz-plane parallel to the uniform
ﬂow behind the shock, and hence normal to the shock. Discard that part of the ﬂow on
the side of the yz-plane that contains the downstream half of the leading edge. Reﬂect
the remainder with respect to the yz-plane. So far the boundary, shown in Fig. 1 together

  
   

Undisiuvbed

Velocity

   
      
 

,
{Oblique Plane
I Shock

Figure I Shock and Tentative Boundary

with the shock, consists of a dihedral angle with congruent sectors removed from each
face. Since the two halves of the shock are coplanar, the uniform ﬂows on the compression