extension of NSF 029110 Page 1!

ENCLOSURE B

Excemts from Original Proﬂsal for Funds
(modified to bring it up to date)

Name and Address of Institutigm
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research:
Research on Digital Computer Operation and Utilization

 

Investigation into the patterns of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studies of
numerical analysis and machine programing methods, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such specific applications of
machine techniques to problems in science, engineering, and V
administration as will clarify the basic mseareh and suggest new
points of View.

Desired Starting Date} September 1, 1956.

Time Periods Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

 

 

 

grease}w Research - Bacljground Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fmitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its 701% machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new empton
Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-classified and nonwroutine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Mchine Computation Gmmitteeo

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated their interest in parti-
cipating and have appointed faculty members to be their Insti-
tutional Representativea These representatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of their
institution'sa IBM is previding some funds for stipends for
graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of this research“