, - 2 —

 

special coding courses which are given by the Center staff during

each term and summer. A number of other collegeu bring some of

their classes in for one or more laboratory sessions. Class use

will expand further, but its expansion will be havpered b? the
limitations of access to tie 704, as will be discuised later.

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded

rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their work
(including their class exercises). But this use tones to be self-
limiting for, as soon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec-

iate the possibilities in education and research of computers, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campus.

By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions hvve mac nes ~

'- . ouZLiMiELmaiem4Mu4

of their own. These are smaller machines, of the 650 ty)et so ra7adzﬂ
these instituions still come to the Center to use the 704 for their
_big3er jobs; but it does mean that the use of the Center IV the '
other New England colleges will tend to level off to a reexonable

load (about one shift, it now appears) rather than growing contin—
uously, as the MIT usage is doing. This result, of course, is in

accord with our conviction that computers should be as preva ant

as chemistry laboratories.

 

In contrast, the MIT use of the 704 for research into law

 

applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy SJ

rezuests for machine time for such work let alone routine ’20‘33t
1 P L

 

calculations of the"production—run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which

has heretofore been reserved for IBm zse. In addition to the 1
research in solid~state theory, in meteorology and oceanography, 1
which new depend completely on machine computation and could \

:_«
1

can alhot them, tiere are a number

 
 
 
    

'e basic to the development of new
to the development of computers

indicappeo by shortage of machine

 

a few:

 

 

'v '1 by other

VLe l’x i