Mr. M. Loren Bullock LR LR Ry ‘March 17, 1961

were available ﬂch uuld aun a mp u-unmm from & memory

protection trap.) In particular input-output commands can only be mmm
when out of mmmmmmeutmcmmmuum
npram of the mode status of the relocation and boundary registers.

, 2. Amro:umrm-mmchomum-uaunm
mmmmmﬂllmamymmmmdmuu |

 input-output imstruction is encountered or if transfers or effective addresses
 reference out of the unprotected memory region. The unprotected region of

memory is defined by the contents of the boundary xg registers. The trap

| should occur before execution of the instruction initisting the trap. The

boundary registers should be only out of the memory protection mode by

special instructions: 1if these instructions are executed in the memory

protection mode, the effect should be either @& NOP or & trap. (Instructions
for reading sxmzx are also desirable although not essential.) The contiguous
region of unprotected memory should be capable of being of any length and
located at any region in memory. There is no fundamental objection to
quantizing the bounds but it iz felt that the smallest domain should be no
larger than 256 words, If the bounds are guantized, transfers or memory

 references from one domain in the unprotected regtontomtwdoutnin
the unprotected reglon Ml.d mt cause a trap. i

vasn \.-'*)HV 3

3. A relocation register lhould be provided euch it that the eontqt-
are indexed into each effective memory address (in addition to the ususl

index registers). (There is no major programming difference if the relocation

register and boundary registers are combined into 2 base register and range
register combination.) With respect to setting, reading, and quantizing
the relocation register, the same considerations apply as for the boundary
registers. If at all possible, the execution of 7090 instructions in the

& nemory pxekmstimux protection mode should not require any more cyéles than
when out of th&modo.

4, A core storage clock and interval timer should be available for the
supervisory program to rotate among user programs., The clock and timer
described in RPQ F89349 appear to be adequate for the requirements.

5. The ut modificationg propesed should not preclude further RPQ
requests, but it 1s unlikely that any further requests will so intimately
affect the 7090 logic.

The above requirements and modifications have been arrived at after
congiderable study of the 7090 system diagrams and the programming
necegssities of an effective time-sharing system. We will be glad to discuss
at greater length either the hardware or the programming considerations
involved,

S8incerely,

Philip M, Morse
Director

cc: F. J. Corbato, J. lMcCarthy, M. Minsky, H. Teager