-2~

Professors Reissner and Lin were request2d to carry this opinion
back to the Mathematics Department and to suggest that the Mathe-
matics Department discuss such a course to be given by Professor
Hildebrand next fall. e . .

There wee also discussion concerning a second term
continuation of this proposed course. FProfeassor iildebrand had
not gotten far along in his planning and was not at all sure that
he would be ready tc give & second term next year. After some
discussion with the Committee, however, he outlined a tentatlive
catalogue description for a possible second-term course, "Numerical
Analysis II", This 2lso is appended. It was suggested and agreed
that further discuession concerning this second-term course should
take place before any final action is taken; for example, it is
not clear how this suggested second term may averlap a possible
second-term course suggested by Dr. Grosch of the Whirlwind Pro-
Ject. : |

Caldwell pointed out that the Kopal project at present
being run by Dr. Jacchia has a number of items owned@ by the
Center of Analysis, among them being a number of desk computing
machines. He suggested that these be checked over before the
Jacchia project moved to Harvard and that these machimes might be
made available for whatever laboratory course was to go along with
the course in Numerical Analysis. Mr. Frank Verzuh, subsequent to
this meeting, went cver the inventory with Jacchia, and has supplied
Morse with a list of the machinesg available, (1 Monroe, 8 Marchants,
and 1 National Cash Register Differencing Machine). Verzuh has been
asked to take care of this equipment for the time being until a
decision on the laboratory is come to. There is also a library of
tables and texts on compubting which will be held for future disposi-
tion.

The next meeting 1s to be held on April 16, at 3 p.m.
Further discussion of future courses in this field, and a posslble
discussion of problems in Geophysics or Metallurgy may be on the
agendsa.

fﬂfj%E§§;§§\%§&v -
th%f%;M. Morse

Chairman

Meeting Date: April
(Dictated: April G