who is in charge of the Instrumentation Laboratory
’ :2 the following discussion 0! the use of the

..—: in solving the gunsight calibration problem

instrumentation Laboratory Use of RDA and MIT Statistical Services
_._..._ ___..___.__.__i_._____ _—___

   

'1} c "ockefeller Differential Analyzer and MIT Statistical
Zorn/ice; 5310110 currently perform a large volume of work for the Instrumerp
totion Lauritory, most of which relates to the calibration of fighter
aircraft ‘ 'ts. To clarify our present and anticipated future needs for

them: scI'ViC-l‘s, I present herewith a resume of the nature of the calibration
problcm 1n" the Contributing role or these groups.

 

 

In our type of sight there are several variable parameters (e.g.
torques, currents} that must be functionally related, automatically and
continuously, to such measureable variables as the range of the target and
its time rate of change, the air density, and the aircraft angular velocity.

The process of deriving the necessary relationships in a practical form is
called calibration.

The first step in calibration is to compute the ideal fighter
flight paths which are such that. a round fired at any instant along the
path is theoretically a. hit. Since the projectile is aimed by pointing the
.Jircraft itself, these equations necessarily involve aircraft dynamics. The
result is a complicated set of non-linear differential equations :ontaining
aircraft. performance, ballistics of the projectile, and rather intricate
geometric and kinematic calculations. The solution to these is currently
carried out by RDA. The second step is the reduction of these solutions to
unable form; 1.0)., the preparation of tabulations of the sight parameters to
be calibrated against the variables to be used in their calibration. This
step involves quite complex kinematic calculations that are currently
carried out on punched card equipment by MIT Statistical Services. The
last stop is that of finding suitable empirical approximations to these data
in u form that can be instrumented. Since the data depend upon many more
parameters that can be utilized in practice, engineering judgment and ex—
perience are the important factors in selecting the proper form for these
approximations. This part of the task involves relatively little computation,
and is curried out in the Instrumentation Laboratory.

The first two parts 01‘ this task are suited, in principle, to
solution by a large seal-z digital computing facility, and a program is in
progress to explore the feasibility of a completely digital a: proach. The
important and unknown factors are those of speed, accuracy, machine capacity,
and coat, as well as machine availability. Relief from our present dependence
upon RDA and Statistical Ssrvices can be expected, if at all, only after
completion of a major exploratory program with other facilities.