models inadequate for representing many interesting processes
or, in cases where linear analysis remains relevant, have
increased enormously the size of the linear system employed.

Use of mathematical models in biological and soclologlical re-

- search has induced consequences similar to those in the physical
sciences. It is anhistorically remarkable coincidence that,
parallel to the emergence of these difficulties, a means of
dealing with them has been found in the art of high-speed com-
putati on. . '

The Director added that the need for adequate computer
facilities for basic research problems must be considered
primarily from an interdisciplinary point of view. In addition
to the obvious interdependence of computation and research in
mathematics and physics, other mathematical, physical, and
engineering sciences are utilizing é&omputational techniques at
an increasing rate. - Problems in biological and sociologilcal
sciences are also becoming increasingly amenable to numerical
analysis, '

Provision of computer facilities for basic research is
filling an important need in training mathematicians at all
levels in formulating scientific problems. At present only a
* fraction of the number of mathematicians needed for computer
work are being graduated at the various levels. Scientists in
other fields, also, must be trained in methods of app.ying
computer techniques to their own problems. In addition to the
scientists and mathematicians whose interests are in basic re-
search, an increasing number of trained specialists are required
to man the big machines used on industrial and defense problems.

Yet another compelling reason which prompts Foundation
support of computation centers is the need for more research to
advance the art of computation itself. Effective utilization
of existing machines requires research in numerical analysis.
Scientists are daily encountering problems beyond the capacity
of existing machines, and, if the need for better equipment 1is
to be met, investigation into the theory and engineering of
computing machines 1s essential.

Foundation support for various aspects of computer re-
search and training has been worked out with the advice and
assistance of an Advisory Panel for University Computing
Facilities, headed by John von Neumann, Commissioner, Atomic
Energy Commission. Other members of the Panel, who represent
a number of disciplines, are: Herbert L. Anderson, Institute
for Nuclear Studies, University of Chicago; Jule G. Charney;
School of Mathematics, Institute for Advanced Study; Gerald M.
Clemence, Director, Nautical Almenac, U. S. Naval Observatory;
Joseph O. Hirschfelder, Department of Chemistry, University of

<D