May 22, 1959

Professor Alan J. Perlis
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania

Dear Al: ae

— To
I have from you a conyot seahov 1otter to you. I have sent you in other

letters a translation of ‘his latest letter to me and a copy of Dorodnitsin's
letter to me. =

I propose that Ershov spend the period from (on or about) August 15
(Saturday) through Saturday, August 29, at Chapel Hill, While here, we
could arrange to show him a Ramac installation at the Home Security Life
Insurance Company in Durham, and the two University Computing Labora-
tories with IBM 650's at Duke and N. C. State, as well as the Univac 1105,

On or about Saturday, August 31, or Sunday, August 30, he could leave for
Cambridge, with you, me, or both of us. We could arrange it so he could
use Monday, August 31,to visit one or more installations in Washington or
New York. He would spend September 1, 2, and 3 at the A, C, M., meeting
in Cambridge, along with me, or you, or both of us, and give his paper
there (I have invited him to present a paper at the request of Joe Wegstein. )
Beyond that point, he would be in the hands of M,I. T. As I see it, I am
quite glad to assume responsibility from Saturday, August 15, through
September 3 at Cambridge, and if necessary meet him and Kantorovich at
their plane arriving at New York on or about Saturday, August 15, or Sunday,
August 16, and place them on their departing plane at New York on or about
September 4, :

If you and M, I, T, want to have the responsibility for Ershov before and
after this, I leave it up to you.

I propose that you make out 2 schedule from whenever you plan him to arrive
(July 27) to on or about August 15 or 16 as you would like. Then list the above
dates through September 3. If you feel that he should visit Washington on
August 31, include that, and we will make plans for him to visit NBS, for
example, and the Bureau of the Census. If you would prefer Washington some
other time, we can plan to have him visit someone else (IBM Research?) on
August 31 or August 29 - 31.

When you finish your schedule, send a copy to me and to Morse, if he is


Professor Alan J. Perlis
Page 2
May 22, 1959

included. After all of us approve of it jointly, we will send it on to Ershov
and Dorodnitsin. It might read:

July 27 Arrive at Idlewild (responsibility: Perlis)

August 15 or 16 Arrive at Chapel Hill with Perlis (from then on,
responsibility: Carr)

August 17 - 28 Lectures at Conference on Frontier Research in
| Digital Computers. Visits to N. C. State College,
Duke University, Ramac Installation at Durham, work
with Univac 1105 installation at Chapel Hill, conferences
with other lecturers and students

August 31 Visit Washington, D. C. Computer installations (responsi-
bility: Carr to arrange) or IBM Research, New York
(responsibility: Perlis)

Sept. 1 - 3 A,C.M, meeting in Cambridge. Present invited address,
see M,1, T. Computation Center, meet U. S. Computer
personnel. Responsibility: Carr, Perlis, M, I, T.

Sept. 4 ~€o — Departure datep Visit M, I. T. Computation Center, confer
with personnel, visit other computation centers in Boston
(Harvard, John Hancock, First National Bank, etc. ?)
Responsibility: M, I, T. |

Professors Morse and Frank Versuh should set a departure date, otherwise we
should set September 4 as a departure date.

I myself, of course, am willing to assume complete responsibility for him from
the period from about August 15 through September 4, along with Kantorovich,
but the responsibility for outside those dates should be yours and M, I, T. 's.

Once an agreed upon schedule is available, we all three-UNC, Carnegie Tech,
and MIT should send it along to him and to Dorodnitsin. Therefore, we need a
schedule as soon as possible,

I plan to call you on Monday when you come back from Dallas, How are you
going to get him into Pittsburgh? (Go to Magnitorsk?)

Sincerely yours,

1

—

John W. Carr, III, Director
Research Computation Center

ce: Professor Morse


