comm-as 0N MACHINE MODS 0F comhilsTION
Minutes g m Fourth Meeting

January 7. 195*!

Persons Present: 1!. Feshbach, J. H. Forrester, F. Hildebrand,
J. A. Brones, c. c. Lin, P. 14. Horse,
H. H. Seifert, F. H. Verzuh

Horse reported on the reduction in funds which the
Office of Naval Research had indicated was necessary for the
academic year 1955-1956. The budget was to be reduced to
approximately $100,000, which maintain that by that time, the
work of Adams' group in Whirlwind and the masher or research
assistants appointed in this field would have to be reduced.
Horse indicated that there still would be room for between 8
. and lo appointments a year, depending on whether we could save
any money from previous years. It was pointed out that this
represented the inevitable cutting of funds from the Navy, and
this made all the more imperative the study of the minimum
amount required to keep various machines going.

horse also reported on action on a proposed conference
on the making of Tables. A preliminary letter has been sent out,
asking suggestions as to conferoes, and a letter has been sent to
Dr. Seeser or the National Science Foundation. It was proposed
that the meeting be in the latter part of. the spring. A question
was raised as to whether someone from England should be invited.
horse also brought up the fact that a conference on training
personnel in computing procedures was being held in the near
future. Hildebrand said he was interested to attend and will
report on this later.

Feshbach reported on the Physics Department Computing
Group which uses hand computers. Its present rate involves a
yearly expenditure of $40,000, but this can be expanded or con-
tracted at need. The personnel involved are all highly trained,
and most or them can put problems on large machines as well as
perform calculations with hand machines.

Bro-nee discussed his attitude toward the need for
machines here at the Institute. He pointed out there was a real
question as to whether an educational institution even as large as
the Institute can afford to maintain a large computing facility
solely for educational and free research purposes. He felt that,
if the budget for a given machine was reduced below the amount
necessary for supporting a minimum active group using the machine,
that there would be no incentive to continue keeping the machine
going. There was some discussion as to whether these ideas held
true for all types of machines or not.

It was decided to hold another nesting of the Committee
at 2:00 p.111.” Friday, January 15, if Professor Gordon Brown or
Professor (3. S. I; apex? would be present to give further facts on

this question. \ - m. \\‘i
mtg \a w moms.“


