d. Level or induntrial activity in the aurroundiu
labor narhet area.

Here azain, the exact definition or variablea will be inﬂuenced
by the definitiona under ﬁnch the noat proaiaing data was gathered. 'l'hua,
for exnwle, with regard to the deﬁnition 0! region, urbanization and
labor narket areal, In ahall adopt the categoriea and boundariea need by
the Cenaua Bureau and the Depart-ant o! Labor.1 Iith regard to eoanonic
characterietioa, we any for ennple, adopt an a neaaure o! non-earned wealth
"other" (than earned) incone inetead of aaaeta ei-ly because the for-er
and not the latter in reported in the neat proniain‘ aouree of data. At
leut at thin prelininary ntage, it eould nee- that the loot efficient uaa
o! reeourcea could he nade by atudyin; pertinent variablea an we (ind
th- in the available data aourcea.

0! courae, the initial deciaion with regard to pertinence
in baled upon oo-on knowledge and introepection. 11ml ahatever we can
find relatin‘ to age, race, naritnl atatua, children, and relationship to
head at fanily in ohviouely pertinent. After the etntiatieal annlynia, it
any he revealed that none or the variable. or diatinetione bet'een intervala
on a variable are not aigniticant and at that tine we nay drop variablea or
conaolidate intervala.

“the peat labor force Itatua a! individuala conetitntea one of
the noat troubleao-e o! the independent variablee because o! in obvioua
pertinence conhined with the paucity of reaaonahly acceaaihle data relating
to it. The prohahility that an individual will he in the labor force in
any (iv- nonth ia ohvioualy heavily dependent upon tether or not he
ran in the labor force laat nonth, lent year, or ever before. And yet,
nnleee the right queationa about the put are naked, a ain‘le questionnaire
telle ue only about the labor force name or an individual in relation to
hie preeent characteriatica. Unfortunately, the right queationa have
Ieldan been naked. The Current Population Surveya in their annual work
experience aupplenenta do all about labor torco participation during the
year prior, but the published raeulta are too crudely crue—clualtied (or
our purposes. Three quarters at the houaeholda in the Garrent Population

M
1 Dee pauen 16 and 17 o! the attached paper