R\" :

f‘ P . DMovember 29, 1956
Dr. Norman S. nan Bir.ctor

The Social. 8012232: 7

The Rockefeller Foundution

40 Vest l9t§ Street

New York 20, New !ork

Doarunr» ‘Buchanan,

Aa you lusspsted in anr'talk of November 9, I havu bcon kcoplng
an ear open for examples of the social science problems in which our

- Computation Center is interested, As you know, the potential of such
problems 18 largely unknown so that most examples must be of past

computer applications. One example though of research activity which
offers the promise of good team-work between a 00nputation chtor
staff member and social scientist is the following.

| Professors Theodore Baer and Ithiel Pool of the M.I uT. Center
for International Studies have approached us on the foasibility of
"Computing Optimal Electoral Redistricting in Massachusetts". This és

‘a problem of immediate interest in the local political situation bu:

is also a type of problem of longerange national signifilcance. Pro-
fessors Baer and Pool have thouﬁht throu§h the problem to the point of
developing various criteria of "goodness" (e.g. closely or evenly
distributed political strength in each electoral district, homogeneity
of socio-economio factors, ete.). In my Judgement, their ideas are
now "ripe" for close liason with a computation specialist so that the
difficult task of quantifying their concepts and sclving their problem
can begin. The method or solution will probably be by the techniques
of "linear programming”" which are very powerful on optimization probe-
lems of this kind.

I should say that the above problem was essentlally brought to us,
a procedure which in general puts the burden of computer knowledge on
the social scientist. It is very likely that there are wmany problems
of similar interest waiting to be discovered by computation experts
consulting with social scientists. I need say no more since this was
the gist of Professor Morse's proposal.

In addition, I have talked with Professor Orcutt of the Economics
Department at Harvard. Professor Orcutt, who 18 alsc the Harvard
Representative ,of ocur Computation Center, wa kﬁnﬁaeno h to survey

ome of tational W en or are
geTng ca%giega E i ggogo%ics rggtigéﬁfesThe activities divide roughly

into two classes, those involving standard mathematical manipulations
and those which utilize the computer for simulating or behavior studiles
of economic systems. A brief l1list of these activities is: