Dr. J. E, Robertscn, Chairman
ACH Program Committee
University of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

Dear Dr, Robertson:

read by one of the undersigned.

 

SFB:gn
Enclosure

Pebruary 27, 1937

Sincerely yours,

8. ¥F. Beat
A, Biegel
PF, W. Helwig

Enclosed in quadruplicate are copies oi an abstract and
a summary of a proposed paper entitled ‘MIT's Post-Mortem Routine
for the IBM 704, ' to be given at the June meeting of the ACM,

The described routine was prepared jointly by the staff
of the Computation Center, and the paper, if accepted, will be


RY , Ne Sa LA ~~ 3
" & a WELL
: EEA Rp pre
Se we I EN, 2 o*
wd Ro ria yas : b
. - = ; x
0 TN ) hy " . =:
Ph 1h 3 vor,
‘ MN
_

Plgital Computer Laboratory
dassachusetis Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetis

SUMMARY OF

MIT'S POBT- HOUTEN ROUTINE FOR THE 188 704

Abstrac

ARE A Re GS

50 facilitates program ghechost at the MIT Compatation
Center, a post-mortem routine for the IDE 704 hus been
written. It priate or punches specified ranges of core
Bemory in any of the varicus forms sccepted as inpat by
the Buare Assembly Program; for example, as symbolic
ingtructions or as floating point susbers. The routine
is normally controlled by symbolic request cardy., which
look much Like Shave symbolic casds: but it aay alse Le
controlied napually from the console. Plans for integra
ting the assembly programe and the post-sortes routine into
& single system will be briefly discussed.

poe


Preseat Houtine

4 post-mortem routine hep been written at MIT for the IBN 704
computer. The main feature of this routine is that its output is in
the sume language in which the progrusser codes. That is, it priate
or punches the contents of core semory (and we plan (uv extend this
soon to include tapes and drums also) in any of the various forms
accepted as input by the Share Asssubly Program.

The ranges to be printed and the forms ia which they are to be
printed may be specified either manually at the 704 comsole or by &
symbolic request card. |

These symbolic request cards themselves look Like four address
share symbolic imstructions. Whea referring toc core memory, the first
two addresses specify the initial and final addresses of a rasge to be
printed or punched, These addresses say be any expressions possi
bly involving sysbols which the post-mortem routine mast translate
inte absolute numbers using a syabol table road in slong with the
symbolic veguest cards, (Such a eymbol table is produced by the as-
pembler when the program being checked out is ssseabled,)

Toe third address specifies in which of the following forms
the output will appear:

1) Instructions with symbolic addresses, (The ability
to obtain symbolic addresses Daok again vo regard as the most impor-
tant feature of this routine.)

2) Instructions with absolute addresses.

3) Decimal floating point numbers.

4) Decimal fixed point numbers with scale factors.

§) Decimal integers.

@) Octal integers.

7) Binsry coded decimal, i.9., charactors oun the IBN
heypanch weyboard.

@) Binary casds.

APE I ow -

i. %e probably will prepare a fow slides to illustrate the syubolic
request cards and the priating they produce,


The fourth address specifies on which of the following output
units the output wili appear:
1) The on-line printer,
2) The on-line pungl,
3) A magnstic tape recorded for printing using Che tape
to-printer,
4) A magaetic tape for pusching usiag the tape-to-punch.

The operator bag the ability to chasage from wn-iine to off-line
and vice versa.

Remarks placed on the sysbulie request card or on a special re
marks card reappear at start of the output for that request to pro-
vide for labeling results.

in use, the post-movtesm routine is stored permanently of a tape
unit aad celled inte operation by pushing the load tape button at the
console or by the programmed equivalent to this, As the post-aortes
routine comes inte cores, all but five registers of core Memory are
saved by writing them on another tape unit. Also, insofar am it is
possible, the status of the varieus indicators and registers of the
arithmetic olement aye saved and later recorded at the start of the
output.

Finally, there is a request card which will cause core ReReYy
and the srithmetic element (except for the HY and instruction loos
tion counter) to be restored to their original values and ccatrol to
be transferred to any dosired addreas.

Fature FOVORGNTS
The first improvement we wish to make is to provide for post-
sorteming topes and drums, We also wish to modify the Share Assea-
bly Program so thet it will recognize post-mortem request cards aod
compile suitable calling suguences which, when executed, would call
the post-morten routine lato storage to do the desired post-aortea.
This was the reasen we chose to ufe the Share symbolic card format
for the request cards. Also we wish the ussembler to store the
syabol table op tape so that it will not be necessary to read it
in from cards each time a poet-morten is to Ho dono,


