KELD’IINAHY
PRCX‘zRAM

WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 8

8-10 p.m.

THURSDAY,
JANUARY 9

9 a.m.

9:30 am.

 

11:15 a.m.
ll:h0 am.

1.

2.

7——

for the District I Convention of the American College Public Relations
Association, January 8, 9, and lo, 1958, at the Somerset Hotel and M.I.T.

Registration, reception, aid-studio party at mBH—TV, 81;, Massachusetts
livenue, Cambridge. hGBH-TV and the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broad—
casting Council will entertain the Conventione Up to 120 members can
be accommodated as studio audience for "I've Been Reading," with Profes-
sor _l_3_. Albert Quhamel of Boston College and Volta Torrey of M.I.T. at

__ __—-

9:30 pm.

Registration in the foyer of Kresge Auditorium, M.I.T.
A general session on current scientific events and their implications
for all colleges and universities, in the Little Theater, Kresge.

D_r_._ Elbert 2; Little, Executive Director of the Physical Science Study
committee, on the Committee's project for improving high school physics
and on its possible effects on the students available to colleges.

Er; i Guyi‘ord Stever, Professor of Aeronautical Engineering and Associate
Dean of the M.I.T. School of Engineering, on the challenge of rockets
and Sputniks and the problems of American leadership in this field.

Alexander g; Korgl of the 1»1.I.T. Center for International Studies,
author of "Soviet Education for Science and Technology," on science,
scientific education, and science public relations in the U.S.S.R.

PL! George 13; Harrison, Dean of the M.I.T. School of Science, on the new
role of science in our daily lives and on its implications for all in-

stitutions of higher education.
Coffee in the Kresge Auditorium foyer.

Four concurrent sessions:

The M.I.T. Computation Center, an introduction designed especially for
representatives of colleges participating in the New England Colleges
and Universities Cooperative Program by Professor _Philip M; Morse, Di—
rector of the Center. (Since facilities are limited, representatives

of participating colleges will have priority in attendance; these col-
leges include Amherst, Bates, Bennington, Boston College, Boston Univer-
sity, Bowdoin, Brandeis, Brown, University of Connecticut, Dartmouth,
Goddard, Harvard, University of Maine, University of Massachusetts, Mid-
dlebury, Mount Holyoke, University of New Hampshire, Northeastern, Univ-
ersity of Rhode Island, Tufts, University of Vermont, ‘iellesley, Wesleyan,
Williams, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and Yale. Others will be

accommodated if space permits.)

A session on college movies, ﬂ ﬂips, and slides, featuring new

films shown and described by their sponsors. Frank :1: Conant, Manager
of the M.I.T. Photographic Service, in charge of arrangements. (NOTE:
This session was originally set for 9 a.m. on Friday and has recently

been changed; it is the one referred to as Friday morning in the general
information sheets.)