e 5"9’ 6 i
o A'»’sommbc 23. 1950

S héissziit'iéubst?i!wy from the presen ce of the computer.

 

 

£ *_'_Mapfauon of statumcal methods to analysu of economtc pmblems.

Estimation problems in time-series, such as autocorrelation, least~ 3

T aquaru blas and colinearity, with emphasis on recent econometric
~ work. Bach student undertakes quantitative analysis of an economic
. problem, such as gstimating conmmptton-tneome relauenshlps or an =%

2R ,.;ndum demand schedule. s . .

e 382 W

Study of selocted mu stlcal teehnlques iou.nd useful m ucent
. economic work, especlany the rogressicn analysla of eeonomic
 time serlos. Al

' Pinally. a non-cndit progrnmmlnq courao for graduate students.
.undargraduate students, executive development students, and faculty '
 members will also be oifered by Mr. C. Harvey Willson each term. This.
course will cover the usage and capabilities of auxiliary equipment; the

basic organization of the IBM computer, and the Fortran language. The
basic Poriran language has been found sutficient fer most computers,

but Mr, Willson intends to go on with certain students groups in covering
programming in Soap 2-A and other languages., Throughout , the student
A8 expected to select a program and run an approved problem of interest
‘to himsell. |

Faculty Re seai‘éh

The second main category of usage by thé School of Industrial
25 Manaqement will be in the research work of the School and of the Depart-
ment of Economics. The quantitative emphasis within the School of Indus-
trial Management is well known and growing. It is expected thai
Professors Sidney 8. Alexander, David Durand, Eli Shapiro, Edward H.
Bowman Myron J. Gordon, Edwin Kuh, Martin Greenberger, Paul H,
Cootner, James C. Emery, Thomas M. Lodahl, Richard B. Mailel,
Zenon 8, Zannetos, and Mr. Arnold Amstutz will all have a direct interest
in the availability of the computer for their own research flelds. Largely
these fields can be summarized under the heading of problems in business
~ {inance; in management economics; in mathematical applications to