M.I.T. Computation Center - Page 4 of 10

Title of Pogition: ELECTRONIC ACCOUNTING MACHINR (EAM) OPERATOR

 

DUTIES
The duties include the following:

1. Interpreting cards,
2. Sorting cards,

3. Listing cards,

4. Repreducing cards,

5. Selecting, matching, merging, and checking cards,
6. Calculating results.

The above operations have been mechanized on a functional »asis by special IBM machines
known as Interpreters, Sorters, Printers, Reproducers, Collators, and Calculators,
respectively. Depending on the size of the office, the degree of specialization of
~machine operations varies comsiderably. For example, a large office may have multiple
units identified as the Key Punch Unit, the Sorter Unit, the Reproducer and Tabulator
Unit, and the Collator and Calculator Unit, respectively. In the M.I.¥. Computation
Center, however, the size of the EAM Unit is such that EAM operations are usually
limited to a two-machine-of-a-type.. As a result, the EAM operators are expected to be
more versatile and able to operate various machines,

Depending upon the type of work flow within the BAM office, there may be more or less
need for changing of control panel wiring on certain machines. Specifically, in the
operation of a routine nature -- payroll, registrar, bursar -- the need for changing
set ups ig limited. On the other hand, scientific computation and research demands
all skills of machine operators since many difterent control panels must be wired,
used cccasionally, and dismantled.

QUALIFICATIONS
1. Bducational Background: high school education or equivalent is required.

t
2. Natural Ability and Aptiﬂhde: since a machine operator is handling a2 large number
of cards, a certain amount of manual dexterity is required. Specifically, cards
must not be dropped, mishandled, or abused.

3. Previous Experience: it is possible to hire a completely inexperienced individual
and send him to gpecial IBM-offered courses of instruction on machine operation and
machine wiring, respectively Obviously previous EAM experience is extremely
valuable since a proficient knowledge of wiring can only be obtain by actual
experience. The rate_of pay, of course, is governed accordingly.

4, Technical Skills: a top-notch EAM operator is capable of wiring the following EAM
machines: a) Interpreter Type 552, b) Reproducer Types 513, 514, 519, 526, and
528, c¢) Tabulator Types 402, 403, 405, 407, d) Collator Types 077 and 089,

e) Calculator Types 602, 604, GO7, Card—Programmed Calculator, and 650 Magnetic
Drum Calculator.

5. Compatibility: it is extremely important that EAM machine operators be able to get
along with their fellow workers. Teamwork is essential since common machines are
used and continual ''rubbing of shoulders' is a necessary part of this operaticn.

6. Physical Appearance: a well-grocmed individugal is likely to produce gcod work,
since tabuleting work is a precise and exacting operation.