¢) End-of-files encountered on the RUN INPUT TAPE (logical 4) by read
statements will terminate the job without calling (F2PH).

d) The BSS Control Record bas been changed to save a subprogram
storage map in core. The following F2FM request will dump this
storage map:

FORTRAN () Pu & MPVIE)(0,1000), ALL, OFF, REV

¢) Programmers who have storage limitations and so do not want
(F2PM), must provide a dummy (F2PFM) available in Room 26-058,

SEOAP

As of December 1, 1960, the version of 8AP in use at the Center will
produce column binary decks ofi~line (tape B4) ae its standard output. ©OAP
users requiring rovw binary decks must specify that the assembler is to be
. run with sense switch 4 down which causes on-line punching.

704 Systems

It is still possible to obtain copies of the Center 70-: Systems
Tapes (Aut-matic Operator Program, MIPMRL, F2PAK etc.) if you feel they may
be of value to you. To obtain such coples you must supply your own tape reelis
and, of course, the Center cannot be responsible for their operation at other
inetsllations. If interested, contact Mike Solomlia, Manager of hachine Operations.

Card Storage

Meny programmers are using the output racks in the Run Processing Room
as a storage facility. This is & working area and must be used as such, In
the future, any cards left in those racks or in the output tub more than & few
weecks will be towed away &t the owner’'s expense.

Procedures Hendbook
At the moment, the new Computation Center's Procedures Handbook is at

the printer. Copies should be available earliy in December. A notice describing
the distribution of copies will come out at that time.

Saturday Operation

The Center will be open for the benefit of out-oi-town users Saturday,
Deceamber 10. If you plan on coming in that day, please contact

jfiike Solomita, Manager of Machine Operations
Room 26-152, Telephone UNiversity 4-6200, extension 4113

so that we may schedule coperations. If you have any particular problems
{classes etc.) let us kmow.