01V7f

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

A g — —— ———

and Utilization--Investigation into
the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research: including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibllities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis
and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organizing what
should be one of the mos ruitful cenfers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, p&art
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from 1ts departments of mathematlics, electrical engineering,
physicg, and industrial management. The machine will be availlable,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Instlitute Machilne
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
2% institutions have iIndicated thelr 1lnterest in particlipating and
have appointed faculty members to be thelr Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their instiftution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate sgtudents who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there 1is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and baslc research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in sclence, englneerling,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in wmachine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine