A
-2

1

 

E.I.T. Computation Center Page 2 of 3

LIST OF CQIPUTATION CENTER FUND ACCOUNTS

The following accounts are chargeable to various special grants and

other sources of ope rating income:

Comgutation Center OPERATING Account : #2756

Income received in this account will be derived from a
programming service charge levied ggainst all users of the
Computation Center facilities, These monies will be used io
cover operating costs -~ salaries of schedulers, key punch -
operators, machine operators, programmers, analysts, and
other sslaries and expenses occasioned by the use of the
Center beyond specific activities of the IBM contract.

PARTICIPATING Colleges Operating Account - IEM #2757

IBM has agreed to pay $10,000 to cover the cost of expenses
incurred in scheduling, administrating, and servicing the
New England colleges operations as described in Paragraph 16
in the operating agreement.

MIT Machine Operator Account - IBM - #2757A

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators as described in
Paragraph 17 of the operating agreement.

N.E. Colleges Machine Operator Account - IBM #2757B

The I.B.M. Corpormation has agreed to pay the salsries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators for the second
skift as soon as the 704 machine usage in the second shift
is adequate -- ap described in Paragraph 18 of the cperating
agresment.

HEIT Research Assistant-Associate Account - IBM F2797C

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay $30,000 per year to
defray the salary expense of research assistents and assocliates
assigned to the Center in accordance with Paragraph 19 of the
operating agreement.

ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION FUND #2759

The Rockefeller Foundation has appropriated $98,000 for a
three~year progiram in conunection with the M.I.T. Computation Center.

National Science Foundation Fund #DSR 7573

The National Science Foundation has approprizsted a $30,000
grant for support of the Computation Center sctivities.