Another possible wodification of the 704 shows promise of
e

increasing the ;vLJa'-;lby of the machine in a number of aspects,

The pasic medification iBs a set of connections direet Ly to the ar1tb~
metic unit, via appropriaste buffer circuits, so that the core memory
and the‘”nterdaL ocperation of the machine can be controlled "from
outside”. The combination of this capability with the display
possibilities of tChe cauhode~ray euvput tube make pessible a vari@ty~

of new eapablllaves.,

: For example, uhe»machine could then b2 programmed to display
on the vcope a graph of the valuve of any function of two variables
% and ¥ along any iine in the (x,y) plane. By means of the external
conbrol the peosition and orientatvion of the line ceouid be changed at
will and the graph shown on the scope would change accordingly. thus
en2bling the features of the two-dimensional surface o be explorszd
at will. 1In fact, the program could be extended te enable tThe gbserver
%0 -see Tthe intersection of any surface in three dimensions.with any
plane, and to change position and orientation of the plane 80 as %o.
explore the surface. This could also be extended to more dimensions.
Minimal contours and geodeslcs counid be determined experimentally, so
%o speak. :

Of still greater promlse, a glass plate on which are drawn
1etters or figures can be placed in front of the cathode ray sereen,
the cathode beam may be programmed to sweep the area (like a TV scope)
and a photo-cell could be arrvanged to "report back™ to the machine
nmamory. (through the control link deseribed above) which partz of the
plate are covered with ink. This, of course. is the first step to be
taken in "teaching the machine to read". With such equipment the
machine could be programmed to recognize patterns, reproduce graphs
and, eventually 2 to read and recognize numbers or letters.

. AL present the Center has no echnlclans who can cons%ruct
axiliary equipment of the sort desegribed here, and has wo funds for
parchasxng the necessary parts. A relacively small outlay in the
nexe few years would enable us to increase the £flexibility and
°apab:11ty of ta@ machine enormously. It will not” be necessary (e
S8t up 2 separate shops; other Institute shop L&CillL es can be used:
il we have the persconuel to do the work.

_ Pcrsonﬁsj o Tﬁe present staff of the Center @an direct this .
program and carcy. out scme phases, if they can be relieved of other
duties whieh they are au present paid te dec. Addlticnal budget wom’d ‘
enable part or all of the time of some of these men Lo be devoted f
the nﬂomosed DIrOgrams ObﬁEf gervice and consulting duties they r 13@
;nve covld be carvied oub by additional men who COTZQ be hired Tor

2a% PUrpose .