5

be financed indirectly by contributions from each proJject which
uses 1t, if this were considered to be the most desirable way of
keeping it going. At present, however, support by contributions
from established research projects can support only about a third
of the 100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the most
frultful research of all, the unknown results which are sure to
come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together with
the economist, psychologist or sociologist on the faculty of one
of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with only a
"gleam in his eye". : :

Possible Initial Directions for Investigation

As Indicated, we cannot write down in any detail the
directions which this research effort will take, as the various
teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immediate interest and which, in addition,
should provide hints as to still more important applications.

_ A. One of these is the deeper investigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 7J4 1is too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines
are now programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, a few programs have
been devised to make the machine obey the rules of Boolean logic
and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make
the machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the
logic of a game. Different sciences and brancheg of learning
have their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetics each have patterns of thought which do not exactly
duplicate those of physics. Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which corres-
pond more closely to these other patterns. With a machine of the
flexibility and storage capacity of the 704, such research is
worth while. It will have to be tackled, at the beginning, by
teams of experts in the field of interest, together with mathe-
matical logicians who know machine operation. :

B. Another general line of attack is in the field of
the storage and rapid access to Information, such as 1s needed in
the problems of language translation and historical research, for
example. Several schemes of coding of information, so that it ean
be found quickly and easily, have been devised on paper, but the
"bugs"™ in such schemes will become apparent only when masses of
information, of the order-—of several hundred thousand items, are
to be ordered and sorted out. The new installation at the Compu-
tation Center will have a storage capacity of this size. Some of
the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed, by
members of the Center staff working with persons familiar with the .
information and tis usea. For example, a project in machine
translation has already beert set up under the directbn of Professor
- Locke of the Language Department. As it develops, it will need the
help of machine programming“specialists and will need the use of s
machine to test its ideas. The translation project is already
supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, but parallel work by the
Computation Center on technlques for rapid access to large-quantity