April 25, 1951

mmgon no. not

With the letter of March 30, 1961, signed
by Professors Pane, Horse and myself, we enclosed a
copy of Professor Toager'o report, but not the final
copy of the report, reflecting more accurately the
majority opinion. I am transmitting this report to
you herewith. I believe that this concludes the
documents which I shall forward to you.

I can assure you that my opinion concerning
the need for strengthening computer facilities at 14.1.1.
has been enhanced during the past few weeks. Although
there is a split in the Conmittee's report, I again
suggest that their agreements are much more important
to the problems of M.I.T. than are their disagreements.

I think 14.13. should strive very hard to
realize the establishment of a computation center much
greater than our present facilities with the 709 and
with the to~be-expected 7090.

I have suggested to the members of the original
study group that copies of all reports be distributed to
a group of about twenty-to—thirty people at M.I.T., who
have a deep interest in and appreciation of these problems.
I would also suggest that other copies of the report be
put on file in the ELF. headquarters for distribution upon
request. I have made these statements clear to as many
of the original study group as I could find, and I think
they understand them very clearly, and to some extent go
along with them.

The above statements are strictly my own and
not those of Professors Pane, Morse or Wiesner. I believe
that they will not disagree with me but if they should so
choose, I trust they will write to you directly.

With the distribution of this report to a select
group, and the establishment of a distribution center in
the RLE headquarters, I trust my task as Chairman of the
Committee has ended.


MEMORANDUM FOR DR. PLOE - Pig Two

 

I should like to request that we both send
a letter of thanks and acknowledgement to the following
persons, who were the principal members of the working
group. I am enclosing copies of the suggested letter
signed by me.

Professor Dean R. Arden
RLE and BE Department
Professor Michael P. Barnett
Solid State Physics Group
Professor Jules Chamey
Meteorology Department
Wesley Clark
Lincoln Laboratory
Dr. Fernando J. Corbato
Computation Center
Professor Jack 8. Dennis
RLE and EB Department
Dr. Phyllis A. Fox
Computation Center
Dr. Daniel Goldenberg
Instrumentation Laboratory
Professor Ronald A. Howard
BE Department
Professor John McCarthy
Computation Center, RLE and BE Department
Professor Marvin L. Minsky
Computation Center, ELE, Math. Department
Professor Norman A. Phillips
Meteorology Department
Alexander L. Pugh, III
Industrial Dynamics Group
Douglas 1‘. Ross
Electronics Systems Laboratory
Professor Herbert Teager (Chaim-an)
Computation Center, RLE: and BE Department
Professor Victor H. Yngve
Department of Modern Languages and RLE

I am also enclosing a written transcript of a
conversation I had with Professor Chamey during the
Centennial. I believe this underlines the needs of M.I.'r.
in the big computer field. To paraphrase the written word,
I say that it creeps up on you.

Sincerely yours,

Mann A. G. Hill
cc: Profs. Fame and Morse

Dr. Wiesner
Enclosures


Tran§o§3p33f conversation held between Dr. 3111
ana Professor Emmy 371mg H.131. Eentennial

 

 

Hill: How big a computer could you use, all by
yourself, twenty-four hours a day, to
pursue meteorological problems? Assum
that you have all the operational help
you need.

CHARM-3‘1: I probably could use a 7090 if I wanted
to devote all of my time to it ~ which
I do not. I would like about one hour
per day on a 7090 for everyday use and
indefinite rim on .1 Stretch type
occasionally.

Bill: For instance, say you were willing to
devote all your time. Would the above
statements change?

CW: Yes.
Hill: Bow?

CHARNEY: The 7090 new, Stretch later, say in five
years.

4/26/61

Asmbl

cc: Profs. Fano and rse
Dr. Wiesner


