MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
P e T g SR

Memo to..“.m...".__,,mc,.eut_b;ﬁﬁ_é__mmmm ........ EROOMN. o s L

P, Weailons @ig guiGad adoriy tein Fe g, aia Cavh
/ﬂ‘.4%b4yy¢ T Lt4q{ ~ry At X

A250-5115

fromﬂm-m__wmmmmmloomm&:!ﬁ#_

2-80-108M MURAN BR4409

Along with nearly all organizations such as ours, we suffer from
a drastic shortage of competent technical people. We have found that
one of the best ways to alleviate this shortage is to expand our use of
automatic computing machines. These machines relieve our highly trained
technical personnel of many routine tasks so that they can devote their
time to creative efforts. - « ,

However, expanding the use of automatic aids has created its own
problems. The effective utilization of these automatic aids itself
demands the services of highly qualified technical people. It thus might
be argued that we have only "robbed Peter to pay Paul,"” but we feel that
one competent man in this activity can be of such assistance to our tech-
nical staff that our problems can be solved with a minimum number of
trained personnel. ' :

Tt appears that Computing Engineering, as we refer to this work, is
at a disadvantage in the competition for trained people in that it is so
new that few are aware of its opportunities. In attempting to improve
this situation, we hope to arrange for some of our Computing Engineers to
describe the work to appropriate. groups of college studentss ~Please note
that this will not be a part of ocur effort to attract competent graduates
to Douglas, but will be a technical talk on the applications of electronic
computing equipment. |

We hope that our representatives can speak for about forty minutes
at times which would not interfere with college activities. The talks
could be tailored to an audience, from freshmen to graduate students,

with real or potential interests in physics, engineering, or applied math-
ematics.

G LENGE: S REAA L OF Rl -G it 2 S A=N IR M0 NSEC R, - A L 2GR 0 RN

3

TG AL

oo

aientleisitaan e e i el o
¥ S I MR E