Dear Sirs

The following Questionnaire is intended to obtain data for discussion at
the Session on Computing Service to University Departments at the first
National Conference of University Computing Center Directors, on June 2,
3, and 4, at Chicago. It is requested that you reply before May 13. if
possible, so that the data can be prepared for present ation.

Since replies will not be treated as confidential, a check box is provided
for "NC" {"'No Comment').

The Questionnaire is in two parts. The first part is concerned with your
present operations. The data from this part will permit you to compare
your service operations with those of other computing centers. The second
part is concerned with your opinions of how a computing center can and
should be operated.

It is expected that the findings from Part I can be reported at the Session

as factual information, with little discussion. It is hoped that the opinions
expressed in Part IX will lead to profitable discussion, particularly to reveal
what has proven satisfactory and what to avoid in service operations.

Where questions are concerned with charges for use of the facilities, the
following abbreviations are used:

¥FREES Services performed without expectation of payment.

HESDS Full or partial payment of charges is expected from
residual funds (i.e., of $x available for a research
project, 3y are left after necessary expenses.
Computing services are performed, for which $y are
not sufficient. You do the work, accept the $y‘, and
absorb the remaining cost. )

PREF: Services are performed at a preferential rate, as for
a faculty member writing a textbook, or for "public
relations” for a Chamber of Commerce, a corporation
which gives scholarships, or a police department.

FULLS The user pays the full cost (or more) for the service
performed.
INDVs The user employs individuals with whom he makes

arrangements for compensation.

Yours truly,

&
N g -
; {\ / o "r'/ /’,/‘
J 4 f‘.. - g ! Y » s
LY, [T, Lhare L,
- o "

Ly

Do R. Shreve