a

NL —y
\ TTT T———(SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

60 GARDEN STREET

CAMBRIDGE 38, MASSACHUSETTS July 31 ’ 1057

Professor Philip M. Morse

Director, Computation Center
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Phil:

I understand that the computations carried on with
the new IBM 704 Calculator by Mr. Carlos M. Varsavsky
represent the first completed research project on the new
machine. The conclusions from his results are extremely
interesting, and I doubt that they would ever have been
obtained had an extremely rapid electronic computer not
been available. This conclusion denies a statement by
Harold C. Urey in a recent issue of Nature that tektites
could not have originated from the moon because if they
had, they would have been distributed uniformally over
The earth. Mr. Varsavsky showed that a fairly wide solid
angle of ejection from the moon coupled with a considerable
range in velocity (about 1 km/sec) could result in a very
sharp line of demarcation between a high concentration of
tektite falls on the earth and a region where none fell.
The results of his calculation will be published in due
course of time.

Thus I should like to express official appreciation,
both from the Department of Astronomy at Harvard College
and from the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the
fine cooperation obtained from your group in the use of the
new IBM calculator.

Very best personal regards,

Sincerely yours,

   

Director

FLW /cp


Ns | C
3 AS O P

April 21, 1958

Miss Grace Kohn
Digital Computer Laboratory
Princeton University

- Princeton, New Jersey

Dear Miss Kohn:

Professor P. M. Morse has just shown me your letter of April
9, 1958, to Dr. Seymour Parter, concerning the possibility of your work-
ing at the M.I1. T. computing center. Professor Morse, who is in charge
of the computing center, tells me that he does not have any openings directly
just now, but he happened to know that we are looking for a person of your
qualifications in connection with our Solid-State and Molecular Theory Group.
L.et me describe the sort of work we do, and the type of opening we are con-
sidering.

We have a theoretical group consisting of about a dozen persons--
myself, Professor G. F. Koster, and the rest post-doctorate and graduate
students. We are working on the theory of atomic, molecular, and solid-
state structure, using quantum-mechanical methods. We have a large variety
of problems which we have been solving on the Whirlwind Digital Computer;
several of the past members of the group programmed these problems, over
a period of a number of years. Now the Whirlwind is being given up, and we
are switching to the 704, and it is a very large job to reprogram our work
for the 704. Some of the present group members are working at this, but
there is so much to do that we need extra help. We are looking for some-
one with about your type of experience who would be interested in working
into the group, and helping with this programming. As I said, several
present members of the group are familiar with the methods we use, but they
are busy with other things, and cannot put in enough time to do the program-
ming themselves. However, they can be of great help in guiding the work.
Also, we are trying to get an additional senior person, if possible, who is
familiar with these particular problems, who could work for most of his
time with a person of your experience.

I notice that you are working on your thesis, and would hope to have
part of your time free for your own problems. I see no reason why this can-
not be arranged, provided you could put in a good amount of time helping us.


