COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Teghnology
Cambridge %4, Massachusetts

April 29, 1960

Memorandum to Users of the Computation Center:

We are pleased to announce that in July 1960 an IBM 709
computer will replace the IBM 7O4 presently at the Center;
furthermore, in January 1962 an IBM 7090 computer is scheduled to
replace the 709. These changes should represent appreciable increases
in machine capacity.

A1l of these computers are furnished free-of-charge and
maintained by the International Business Machines Corporation. As
in the present arrangement, one shift of computer time will be
for the Cooperating New England Colleges and Universities, one
shift will be for MIT, and one shift will be retained for its own
use by the IBM Corporation.

The IBM 709 will have thirteen tape units on-1ine attached to
three input-output channels and a direct data entry device attached
te a fourth channel. Two of the channels and the direct data entry
device have been furnished specially for preparation of a time-
sharing system for the 7090. (IBM has also granted sdditional
computer time to the Center for this project.) As with the 704,
the Cathode Ray Tube output unit will be attached to the 709 but
there will be no magnetic drum storage or half-word logic. In other
respects the equipment will be the same as it is at present. It 1s
expected that installation of the 709 will require the entire month
of July.

The instruction codes for the TO4 and TO9 computers are quite
similar. The principal changes of the 709 are either extensions
and improvements or changes in the input-output logic. With the
exception of input-ocutput instructions all 704 instructions will
operate correctly on the 709, 8c that wmost TO4 programs will require
only minor modifications to work on the 709. The Center is preparing
for distribution shortly a further wemorandum describing the
available 709 programwming systems, appropriate manuals which can be
obtained from the Center, and advice on the conversion of old programs.
A meeting on these subjects for interested programmers is also planned
within the next month.

Sincerely,

;\ 'JS*:'.\ K ~.N

T2 i%c PG o e
Philf’e ¥. Morse

Directo

PMM:s RM