October 3, : ‘

 

  
    
   
 

'. ma. earl rs. rio'e: .
3,, Assistant Provost
VILROOHI 3.21.0, In“: To

' .near Carl!

 

    
       
 
        
     

' ‘ I'm sorry I missed you this week. because Its
really getting upset about the progress of the center; 

- .. In the first place, we asked. IBM to start delivery

of some of the peripheral equipment. ahead of time, because "
v we wanted to use it to get routines and cards worked up

before the 7M got here. (We talked this over with you last

spring and said then we would need two bays-«or at the pinch,

one bay-onext to Frank’s place in Building 20. to set up the

machines, to work with the rest or Frank's people and . .
s machines.) .

> Well, the machines are here and more are coming
next week! And there was hardly space to get them out or
the rain: _ If IBM asks whether we are now us them after
they bust a gut getting themhere, we'll have 0 say no.
In the meantime, of the three bays next to-Frank Verzuh,
one is given to the Technigue for a month], two to AFROTC
and part of the one eyon , as far as anyone can see, is a 4‘
coffee room for the Janitors! And we can't even get. the 3‘1
one bay after Technique is through with it! What do I say i.
to IBM? ’1
[

 

On the other point, the air conditioning. I want {A
to let you know that I am no longer worrying about its
additional cost since I got the figures. We can rave, in J
the case of the air conditioning that 1/3 of its cost '
(50, 000 out of the total 160 .0005 is caused by architect's
requirements which we didn't care about in the first place.

In addition, for the 160,000 we are not getting the con-
ditioning we need to use the machines for education (noise,
again) so we are going to have to demand more pressure,- even
if it costs more money--otherwise we can't use the 704 for
classes. The need for the additional pressure comes entirely


Dr. Carl 1". Flee ‘

from the long ducts, which come from theferehitect'e' demehde

egein. If the arch”:
prettineu, 'I feel we
the equipment useful!

In the terrificelly high’ cost of the whole eddi-r

tioml three hey. no:

It the air conditioning is any sample, I guess it 13:

1%:qu

.2, , petoher elk-955$

eats-can demand 50,000'extra Just for
03:17de 20,000 extra Just to make 1 ,

\

tly due to the architect's fancy ideas? f

Philip M. Morse, Director
M-I.‘1‘. Computation center


