READILY APPLICABLE AND REMOVABLE GARMENT BUTTON

 

The present invention relates to certain new
and useful improvements In garment buttons and
has more particular reference to a readily ap-
plicable and removable button construction which
may be completely detached which may be
readily applied for use and which does not have
to be sewn in place.

The male unit is denoted by the numeral 14
and is not unusual in that it includesa one—piece
construction having acircular or equivalent base
16, a neck or shank 18 andaspear-like enlarge~
ment constituting a head 20. Primarily, this
unit is merely a headed base and is adapted to
preferably coordinate with the complemental
female unit 22. Both units may be and preferably
are constructed of suitable ﬂexible resilient
materials, preferably commercialplastics. The
female unit 22 is characterized by adeformable
pressure responsive or stress type deformable
diaphragm or disk 24. This is marginally sur-
rounded by a reinforcing rim or annulus 26.
The normal shape of the diaphragm is slightly
conical and the inherent resilient properties
maintain the same in this condition. 0n the
reverse side the disk is provided with a central

 

outstanding stud and said stud is slitted or di—
vided as at 28 to define a pair of opposed semi-
circular gripping jaws 30—30 andanintervening
axial recess or socket for the head 20. Sub-
stantially triangular webs 32—32 are radially
integrated with the jaws and also with the out—
side face of the diaphragm. These webs
obviously serve to stabilize the jaws when the
latter are closed. The desired opening of said
jaws is accomplished merely by exerting force
against the central portion 34 of said diaphragm.
It follows that when ‘the two units 14 and 22 are
coupled separately the jaws are normally closed
and frictionally engage and retain the head 20 in
place. When it is desired to remove the button
assembly finger pressure is exerted against the
spot 34 and the rigid rim 26 is' held between the
first and second fingers. It is obvious that this
pressure serves to ﬂatten or straighten or cor-
respondingly ﬂex the responsive diaphragm
whereumn the jaws spread apart and permit
the head 20 to be readily withdrawn. It is, of

course, actually possible to forcibly pull the
two units apart, if desired.

Exhibit 8

20

 

 

LAUNDRY ACCESSORY

 

The disclosure of exhibit 7 (8) shows a
three part fastener. The first (lower
member in the drawing of exhibit 7) has a
rigid bulbous projecting fastener part;
the second, or intermediate member hav—
ing both a socket with a resilient spring
to surround and hold the projecting fast-
ener part of the first member, and arigld
projecting fastener part extending oppo—
site the socket; and a third member hav—
ing a socket with a resilient spring to sur—
round the projecting fastener part of the
intermediate member.

The disclosure of exhibit 8 (9) is a
removable garment button. The button
has a rigid bulbous projecting member,
which has a conical point. This patent
was probably cited to anticipate the dis—
closure contained in the specification
in paragraph 14, third sentence.

The disclosure of exhibit 9 (10) is an
accessory for use In a laundry or an-
alogous process. It consists of a unitary
member having a funnel—shaped opening
with a bulbous socket at the bottom, a
ﬂat plate section of smaller diameter
than the exterior of the funnel, surmount-
ing the exterior of the socket, and a bul—
bous projection extending from the plate,
all in axial alignment. A series of pieces
of material to be laundered, each having
an opening such as a buttonhole, may have

       

MILAOZW
Wolff/ﬁlm]
Wﬂ'M/«WI/ﬂ

     
     

one of these members inserted in the open—
ing with the material around the hole
aranged between the plate and the exteri-
or of the funnel. By snapping the mem—
bers together with the projection of one
member inserted in the socket of another,
the series of pieces are held together in
alignment.

The disclosure of exhibit 10 (11) is a
two-piece ornament with a bulbous pro-
jecting member on a plate, and a separa—
ble ﬂowerlike and funnel—shaped member
with an opening at the smaller end of the
funnel, which snaps over the projecting
member. Different funnel—shaped mem—
bers may be used with the same project-
ing member.

The examiner also searched class 59,
CHAIN, STAPLE AND HORSESHOE
MAKING, subclass 2, for the making of
bead-type chains, and subclass 80 for
ornamental chain structures; class 63,
JEWELRY, subclasses3 to 5, inclusive,
for chain type, expansible type, and other
type bracelets; and additionally consulted
with the examiners in charge of the DE—
SIGN PATENT CLASSES. Althoughthese
subclasses are clearly pertinent, no
references were found in any of these
places which were more helpful than
those already found.

Exhibit 9

21