POLICY COMMITTEE

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
Department of Highways

HENRY D. HARRAL
Chairman

New Jersey State Highway Department

HARRY A. HARTMANN
Vice Chairman

United States Burean of Public Roads
Washington Office
S. T. HITCHCOCK

Region Two Office
AUGUST SCHOFER

Bucks County, Pennsylvania
FRANKLIN C. WOOD

Burlington County, New Jersey

CHARLES H. EISENGREIN

Camden County, New Jersey
WILLIAM R. CATTELL

Chester County, Pennsylvania
JOSEPH S. MUNSHOWER

Delaware County, Pennsylvania
LAWRENCE CG. WILLIAMS

Gloucester County, New Jersey

HORACE MAHLEY

Mercer County, New Jersey
LOUIS A. CALVANELLI

Montgomery County, Pennsylvania

ARTHUR F. LOEBEN

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

DONALD C. WAGNER

HENRY FAGIN

Executive Director

PENN-JERSEY TRANSPORTATION STUDY

51 Street and Parkside Avenue, Philadelphia 31, Pennsylvania, TRinity 8-6100

   

August 14, 1962

Dr, Philip Morse, Chairman

Interdepartmental Commission on
Operations Research

Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Cambridge, lass.

Dear Dr, Morse:

! Un behalf of the Penn Jersey Transportation Study I
should like to request your assistance once again in recruit

Ng a person with a background in operations research,
programming, and research design,

5 PJ has been asked to help officials in the State of
Delaware in the recruitment of a specialist to work in the
general field of data processing, data collection, and
research design. This person would undertake broad research
and planning in transportation, land use, and metropolitan
function, For the first six months or so of his time in
this position he would report to the PJ offices in Philadel-
phia where he would assist in programing and research
planning in such a way as to become widely acquainted with
the work going forward at PJ, Thereafter he would supervise
the data collection and research asmects of a counterpart
study to PJ in Wilmington, attempting to bring data for the
wilmington Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area up to the
level attained by PJ. >

: it 1s ultimately anticipated that the Delaware Study
and the PJ Study will be consolidated into a single PJD agency
headquartered in Philadelphia, There is a further long-tern =
prospect That PJD will become a regional data center while
continuing the development of regional research and metro-
politan models, S
‘here is practically no limit to the scope of the job
except the capacity of the individual. Some previous training
or experience in data collection and the social sciences =
should be extremely desirzblee Tnitial pay for the position

T

A aden,

To plan a coordinated highway and public transportation system

to promote and serve a desired pattern of regional development

in the 9-county Camden-Philadelphia-Trenton Metropolitan Region.


Dr. Philip Morse, Chairman
Interdepartmental Commission on Operns. Research
Massachusetts Inst. of Tech. - Cont'd - pe 2 August 15, 1962

should be in the range of $13,000 to $14,000 depending on qualifications.

At this time, we are also trying to fill both a senior and a junior
position in economics. The persons we are looking for should have a good
background in statistics and preferably some computer experience, Train-
ing in urban or regional economics is desirable but not essential. The
positions are continuing ones, the salary range for the senior position
being $10,000 - $12,000 per year, and for the junior position $8,000 -
$10,000 per year. The major problem areas in economics are the develop-
ment of several industry location models, an employment projection model,
and similar regional analyses,

We believe that these positions represent an outstanding opportunity
for competent and imaginative persons. I would appreciate any suggestions
you could make as to persons who might be interested in and qualified for
these positions.

 

Henry Fagin
Executive Director

HF /DDL/gst


