JARACT NUMBER: NSori-60
MENDMENT NUMBER: 17

"SECTION k1. NOTICE AND ASSISTANCE REZARDING PATENT INFRINGEMENT

"The provisions of this clause shall be mpplicable only if the emount
of this contract is in excess of $5,000,00,

(a) The Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer,
promptly amd in reasonable written detail, each notice or claim of patent
infringement based on the performance of this contract of which the Con-
tractor has knowledge.

{(b) In the event of litigation against the Government on aceount
of any c¢laim of patent infringement arising out of the performance of this
contract or out of the use of any supplies Turnished or work or services
rerformed hereunder, the Contractor shsll Turnish to the Government, upon
request, all evidence and inTormation in possession of the Contractor per-
taining to such litigation. Such evidence and information shall be fur-
nished at the expense of the Government except in those cases in which

; the Contractor has agreed to indemmify the Government against the claim
| being asserted.

 

"SECTION 42. FILING OF PATENT APPLICATIONS

"{a) Before filing or causing to be filed a patent application
disclosing any subject matter of this contract; which subject matter is
clagsified 'Secret,' or higher, the Contractor shall, citing the
thirty (30) day provision below, transmit the proposed application to the
Contracting Officer for determination whether, for reasons of national
security, such application should be placed under an order of secrecy or
sealed in accordance with the provisions of 35 U, S, Code 181-188 or the
issuance of a patent should be otherwise delayed under pertinent statutes
or regulations; and the Contractor shall observe amy instructions of the
Contracting Officer with respect to the manmner of delivery of the patent
application to the U, S, Patent Office for filing, but the Contractor shall

. not be denied the right to file such patent application. If the Con-

 tracting Officer shall not have given any such instructions within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing or other transmittal of the
proposed applicaticn, the Contractor may file the applicaticn.

"{b) The Contractor shall furnish to the Contracting Officer,
at the time of or prior to the time when the Contractor files or causes
to be filed a patent application disclosing any subject matter of this
contract, which subject matter iz classified 'Confidential;' a copy of
such application for determination whether, for reasons of natiomal
security, such application should be placed under an order of secrecy
or the issuance of a patent should be otherwise delayed undsr pertinent
statutes or regulations.

"(¢) In filing any patent application coming within the scope

of this clause, the Contractor shall observe all applicable security
regulations covering the transmission of classified subject matter.

7