™™™ y ™ . - - p - T™HrY 2 . -~
UISONISeTnNM OF CAT I‘J;« TTON PRNADRTR
Sl A NI w an - a Valad — A i L o At

Dre Laning, who is in charge of the Instrumentation Laboratory
flatnematics work, has given the following discussion of the use of the

T

GUA and Statistical Services in solving the gunsight calibratiocn problem:

instrumentation Laboratory Use of RDA and MIT Statistical Services
“’“‘M

The Rockefeller Differentizl Analyzer and MIT Statistical
Services groups currently perform & large volume of work for the Instrumern—
tation Laboratory, most of which relates to the calibration of fighter
alrcraft sightes. To clarify our present and anticipated future needs for
these services, I present herewith a resume of the nature of the calibration
problem and the contributing reole of these groups,

In our type of =ight there are several variable parameters (e.ge.
torques, currents) that must be functionally related, automatically and
continuously, to such measureable variables as the range of the target and
its time rate of change, the air dersity, and the aireraft anguler velocity.
The process of deriving the necessary relationships in a practical form is
called calibration,

The first step in calibration is to comrute the ideal fighter
flight paths which are such that a round fired at any instant along the
path is theoretically a hit., Since the projectile is aimed by pointing the
alrcraft itself, these equations necessarily involve airecraft dynamics, The
result is a complicated set of non~linear differential equations sontaining
alreraft performance, ballistics of the projectile, and rather intricate
geometric and kinematlic calculations. The solution to these is currently
carried out by RDA, The second step is the reduction of these solutions to
usable formj; i.e., the preparation of tabulations of the sight parameters to
be calibrated against the variables to be used in their calibration, This
step involves quite complex kinematic calculations that are currently
carried out on punched card equipment by MIT Statistical Services, The
last step is that of finding suitable empirical approximations to these data
in a form that can be instrumented. Since the data depend upon many more
parameters that can be utilized in practice, engineering judgment and exe
perience are the important factors in selecting the proper form for these
approximations. This part of the task involves relativeiy little computation,
and is carried out in the Instrumentation Laboratory.

The first two parts of this tesk are suited, in principle, to
solution by a large scale digital computing facility, and a program is in
progress to explore the feasibility of a completely digital approach. The
lmportant and unknown factors are those of speed, accuracy, machine capacity,
and cost, as well as machine availability., Relief from our present dependence
upon RDA and Statistical Services can be expected, if at all, only after
completion of a major exploratory program with other facilities.