.4-

Detailed intention regarding the above nine expensents was given
to the students by loans of a written set 0! notes (230 pages) which were

written as rater-once notes and experiment notes, respectively. In addition to
the shove nine marinate, toe laboratory exocrinents were devoted to the use
of punched curd equip-not. Speciﬁcally, one on the card punch, sorter, and
tabulater, and the second on the Card Programmed Calculator, respectively. The
class lectures were print-11y devoted to a discussion of basic construction of
digital conputers, and their use in the solution of scientific computations
encountered in the solution 0:! simultaneous algebraic equations, inversion of
matrices, solution 01 ordinary diﬂemtial equations, etc.

Because of the nviil‘n‘bility of the Type 650 lagnstic Drum Calculator,
it was decided that the subject content or 6.538 should be revised considerably.
Accordingly, during the Spring Tom 1956 all of the above-mentioned electronic
experiments were deleted from the subject content and the subject was devoted
entirely to the application and use of digital computing equipment. The
students were taught the'bnsic principles of digital computers by performing
experiments on card punches, sorter-s, accounting machines, the Card Programmed
Calculator, and the Type 650 linguistic Drum Calculator. The principle emphasis
was actually devoted to s study of the use of the 650 machine in the solution
of "scientific and business data processing problems".

Students were taught to propel the 650 by becoming familiar with

the basic _6_52 language. After the basic language was understood, they were
taught the following interpretive systems:

1. KITSS MIT Selective System
2. HITILAQ FLOATING menus. Interpretive-smemnic coding (1600)

3.‘ NOPI Fixed end Floating Interpretive-numeric coding (600)
4. ' SOAP. Symbolic Optimal Assembly Program

5. PLNSY Floating Interpretive Matrix System (815)

6. BTL Fixed and Floating Interpretive—numeric coding (1000)

It is obvious that the students were not able to beacons conpletely familiar with
all 01’ the above systems. All students instructed now understand the 650
language, MI‘I’SS, and MITILAC. However, only certain students become familiar.
with. each of the other systems depending upon their particular interest.

The followimr list of homework and experiments were perforned during
this subject: ' ' '

I. Problea l - Laborstory use of the Type 026 Card Punch and
Type 082 Sorter

The student spends two hours in the laboratory using the
card punch and sorter to prepare and sort several hundred

mu punched cards, thus insuring complete familiarity with
these two machines. 1