>

be flinanced indirectly by contributions from each project which
uses 1t, if this were considered to be the most desirable way of
keeping it going. At present, however, support by contributions
from established research projects can support only about a third
of the 100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the most
fruitful research of all, the unknown results which are sure to
come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together with
the economist, vsychologist or sociologist on the faculty of one
of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with only a
"gleam in his eye".

Possible Initlal Directions for Investligation

As indicated, we cannot write down 1in any detail the
directions which this research effort will take, as the various
teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immedliate interest and which, in addition,
should provide hints as to stlll more important applications.

A, One of these is the deeper investigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 704 is too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines
are now programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, a few programs have
been devised to make the machine cobey the rules of Boolean logice
and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make
the machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the
logic of a game. Different sciences and branches of learning
have their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetics each have patterns of thought which do not exaectly
duplicate those of physics. Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which corres-
pond more closely to these other patterns. With a machine of' the
flexibility and storage capacity of the 704, such research is
worth while. It will have to be tackled, at the beginning, by
teams of experts in the field of interest, together with mathe-
matical logicians who know machine operation.

 

B. Another general line of attack is 1n the fleld of
the storage and rapid access to information, such as iIs needed in
the problemz of language translation and historical research, for
example. Several schemes of coding of information, so that it can
be found guickly and easlly, have been devised on paper, but the
"bugs" in such schemes will become apparent only whep masses of
information, of the order-of several hundred thousand items, are
to be ordered and sorted out. The new installation at the Compu-
tation Center will have & storage capaclty of this size. Some of
the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed, by
members of the Center staff working with persons familiar with the
information and tis uses. ¥or example, a proJect im wachine
translation has already been set up under the directbn of Professor

Locke of the lLangusge nepggtﬁentﬁ As it develops, it will need the
help of machine programmingspecialists and wlll need the use of a
machine to test 1ts ideas. The translation project iz already

1=
-

supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, but parallel work by the

™ . o de e 2 . B o - - e v on B am ] - . 0 - - ot .;‘ -~ v S - T s v . o .
Computation Center on technlques for rapid access to large-quantity

—om