June 20, 1957

Dr. Ezra Glaser

National Analysts, Inc.
1129 Vermont Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D. 0.

Dear Dr. Glaser:

A number of us looked over your report on
electronic computers. We have found it most interesting
and agree in general with your recommendations. I enclose
an extra page with some detailed comments which you may
find helpful. Under separate cover I am also sending you
a copy of the first report of our Computation Center here.
You may be interested in our plans as outlined in the first
part of this report, particularly those connected with the
social sciences.

I will be glad to see you when you get up this
way. I hope your visit will not be in July for I will be
out of town then. However, if you do come in July, please
get in touch with Professor Arden or Dr. Corbato at the
Center, explain who you are and come on down anyway.

Sincerely,

Philip M. Morse

PMM:LWH
Enclosure


Comments on Electronic Compgters and Research in the social
Sciences by Ezra Glaser.

Page 1.

Page 2.

Page 8.

Page 17.

Page 21.

End of first paragraph. Not valid to say "more useful
in control system'. All scientific calculations useful.

Under 'key principle (2)'. Should follow up speed
description by reason: so that we can do very complex
problems in a finite time.

Under Bl. Not freedom from error but replacing random
by systematic errors which are easier to find and remove.

Answer to question at end of first paragraph. Probably
need a full sketch of modern computebs at beginning,
with repeated emphasis of Important aspects st pertinent
points.

Under 3. Doubt that too much computer work will be done.

At the moment the major hurdle is getting social scientists
to realll find out what machines are and can do by practical
experience. Then will come the good, new ideas.

Paragraph 2. Grosch is wrong. The M.I.T. approach and
Forrester's is best for the initial educational break-
through. (By the way, Forrester is no longer at Lincoln.
He is now at M.I.T.'s School of Industrial Management, as
a Professor.)


ROUTENG SHEET

Will recipients please check off their names, make appro-
priate comments, and send the material on to the next person on

the list. Will the last; on the list please return it to meo

Pa Ma Morse, Room 6:109, ext 857

 
    

 

 

 

Err—'v—t-wm .,a__n—- _ bag—n: .:.. mm. .mwmmwmmxm

To ggﬁé‘“ T1“, (:mrumentc: _ Xe $32M W

 

    

 

mwmumu m "Mkmuo,-WV;;m;

 

 

 

 

To , 0-.)me nus

MAW“ w._wm .WM.W

W<.r~.,-mw.mm mw4_.m.__1m.mu_wm


