4. Hurd and Mason discussed three sorts of training courses
in 704 use which would be available this summer; a special course,
given the latter part of the summer, of two weeks at'ﬁ!T'Eﬁd’EﬂE""
week at IBM in New York (tuition-free but living expenses to be paid
by the participants) open to any of the three classes of participants
menticned in paragraph 1; several regular three-week traini rograms
given by IBM in New York during the summer and nexc fall, W oE could
be taken by those participants who could not attend the special MIT-
IBM course; a ten-week summer program at IBM in New York, involving
training and also assisting in machine operation, the participants
being paid a modest stipend for the ten weeks' work (participants in
this program will be chosen by IBM from those Research Associates
and Assistants applying.)

5. HMorse said the Liaison Committee would be formed before the
end of February. It was suggested that it would be desirable to
have one more meeting of all of the Institutional Representatives
this spring, in addition to whatever meetings of the smaller Liaison
Committee might be necessary. -

6. Morse asked the Representatives present to write him, within
3 week, to . comment on the following subjects:

a. Suggestions for wording the Announcements of Assistant-
ships and Associateships (see paragraph 3) to be printed up soon,
which could best fit the slituation in their own college. Estimates
of thé number of such announcements they would need for use in their
college. .

B Estimates as to possible appliéaticns for Assistantships 1
and Associateships which might come from their college this spring.

" ¢. Estimates as to how many from their college who would
be interested in each of the three tralning programs (mentioned 1n
paragraph 4) which are planned for this summer:

d. Any other suggestions for procedures or sctivities which
would further the educational aims of the Computation Center.

7. Pamphlets relating to the operation of the 704 machines
and concerning programming codes for the 704 were distributed to
those present. Truman Hunter, who 1s to be the IBM representatilve
in Cambridge to work with the Center, said extra copies and other
material could be obtained by writing him at the IBM Office, 363 Third
St., Cambridge, Mass. Morse said that he and Hunter would be glad to
visit the participating colleges this spring, to discuss the program
further, if this is considered desirable.

RN e