-5-

Facilities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 70#
lectronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
u,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as,we11 as the 3
off—line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card—to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 70h, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorterg reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type #07 Accounting Machine. The aggregate

machine rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated by
IBM.

‘ The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation ‘
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and *
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 70k equipment.

Personnel: Su erviso and Administrative Personnel Associated with

the Project

Princi a1 Investi tor to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since

 

 

differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his

Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since

1931, with occasional leaves or absence. His publications include
theboou3"Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration

and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and “Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about a hundred Journal articles, many of which give re—
sults obtained from machine computation, For further biographic
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Dep 1* int at MIT
since 1938u He got his PhDD. in Mathematics from MIT 191:0a He
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers"
(1939), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis“ (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research Journals“ Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Progectu

   
 

   

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head or the
group since July 1955 and who will head the programming research