< UT © ©

 

COMPUTATION CENTER

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

CAMBRIDGE 39, MASSACHUSETTS

October 27, 1958

Mr. Robert E. Dalton
5625 S., University
Chicago 37, Illinois

Dear Mr. Dalton:

Thank you for your letter requesting information
concerning courses and opportunities at M.I.T. in the
digital computer area. In the Mathematics Department an
excellent two-semester sequence on numerical analysis is
offered by Professor Hildebrand. The quality of these
courses can be deduced from an inspection of Professor
Hildebrand's recent book. In the more theoretical area of
applied mathematics, excellent courses are offered from time
to time by Professors Lin and LRkeissner. Many excellent courses
pertaining to applied mathematics are also given in the Physics
Department. In particular, the two-semester sequence on
the methods of theoretical physics offered by Professors Morse
and Feshbach is an excellent introduction to applied mathe-
matics and in particular with regard to its relation to physics.
I am sure you are familiar with their two-volumne series in
this area.

Currently, a course in automata is being offered in
the Mathematics Department by Dr. Marvin Minsky. There are
also courses on this subject in the Electrical Engineering
Departmen t¢ which are taught by Professors John MeCarthy, E.
Arthurs, Richard Jeffries and myself. In the area of information
theory, we have both Professors Shannon and Elias and in the
logical design of digital circuits, Professor Huffman is an
expert.

Opportunities for assistantships are avallable here
at the Computation Center and in general elsewhere in the
Institute. I suggest that you contact the department in which
you would propose to enroll regarding further information on
this subject.


Mr. Robert E. Dalton Page 2

As you know, an IBM 704 is available at the Institute
and at present the completely transistorized TX-0 is also
available. It is intended that the 704 will be replaced by a
709 in the not-too-dlstant future. It seems safe to say in
the foreseeable future, the most up-to-date computation equipment
will be available at the Institute.

If you should be in this area, I would like very much
to meet you and discuss further the opportunities at M.I.T.

Sincerely yours,

Dean N. Arden
Assistant Professor
of Electrical Engineering

DNA RM
Copy to Professor Morse


