5.0

    

S

is recarded on the taps at a density of 200 characters per inch, and a tape speed
of 75 inches per second ig used formading and writing. The start tims is 10
milliseconds. A gep of 0,75 inches is used to separate records on tape. For exe
ampls, an 80-column IBM card mey be recorded on Q.41 inches end this is followed by
a gap of 0,75 inches, etc. However, the lnter«card gap may be eliminated by msans
of record marks, |

A redundensy ocheck ias used on the megnetic tape in which both a vertical and
longitudinal check digit are usede That 1s, & 6=bit code 1s used to represent a
cherecter and a 7th bit is used an an even count checke. A tepe synchronizer is
evailsble which handles as many as 10 megnetilc tape unitse

Sarting on the Type 706 machins utilizes 4 magnetic tape units as well as
the ecoumulator and as such, is 50 per cent faster as it was on the Type 702 machine.
In the particular method of sorting used, the worst possible cazse is that involving
data which exists in complete descending order. The following formula relates the
number of peirs of tepe units (T) and the number of passes required (P):

TP?; R (number of records)

For example, if 8 records were involved and only 2 pairs of tape wnits were used,
3 passes would be requireds ' |

The usual precaution must be taken in hendling the magnetic tape units. That
is, the tepe has & certain dimensional instability in so far as humldity and tem-
peraturd are oonssrnede Specifically, it is recommended that the megnetic tape
units be operated in.a humidity range of 40 to 60 per cent and in o temperature |
not exceeding 80%F.. ..

Magnetlo Drum

The magnetioc drum on the Typs 705 is approximately 10" in diameter in contrast
to the 4" drum used on the Type 650 Drum Caloulator. The drum material on both
machines is the same3 namely, a drum plating consisting of 80 per cent cobalt ==
20 per cent nickel is usede The design of the read-=write heads is almost identical,
although the 700 head has & few more turns of wire.

The drum is capable of storing 60,000 characters. A variable record size is
employed which admits use of some 300 addresses. Table look-up has been accelerated
on the Type 705 because of the b=character address which is employed.