REPORT
on
A CONFERENCE OF
UNIVERSITY COMPUTING CENTER DIRECTORS

June 2 to 4, 1960

(Second draft, July 19)

BACKGROUND

In the past ten years the number of university computing centers has
increased {rom about & dozen to more than a hundred. As the directors of these
centers have struggled with the problems of introducing new facilities and
intellectual disciplines into their schools it has become clear -- to them, if not
to others -- that the tasks of university computing centers ara: spacial ones, different
from those of other computing centers, and peculiarly important {or the develop-
ment of computer science in this country. Many directors came to feel that there
was a need for a conference at which experience could be interchanged regarding
these tasks and a concensus could be reached regarding desirable methods for their
accomplishm ent.

Advantage was taken of the meeting of many university computing ceater
directors at an IBM Seminar at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., June 22-26, 1959, to form
a committee to investigate further the advisability of such 2 conference and, if

found desirable, to organize one and project its program. The committee, in its

final form, comprised

Philip M. Morse, MIT, Chairman

Walter Freiberger, Brown University, Secretary
Local Plans: Alex Orden, University of Chicago

J. W.T. Youngs, Indiana University
Frogram: E,L. Buell, Worcester Foly. Int

5. Gorn, University of Pennsylvania

L.A, Keenan, University of Rochester

WwW. B, Kehl, University of Fittsburgh

A.J. Ferlis, Garnegie Inst. of Tech.

H. RB. Rymer, Northwestern University


RAE Rms Ae
~ ois 3 i ba Be A “5 5  —.
NP Taga
oR Be cm a WC REN of
2 os « gi A Re a
i 3 ¥ . x 7 Bo: ;
g ok ~ 5 2 i
EN > 3
i : 2 »
i oi A fab : . a. a 0 i > : ~~ 2 -
ha . ; “2 a : | ‘ i | : ? 1 _~
oH Wo a Ni 0. kk. Shreve, Oklahoma State University
he SE ‘uk : 4 : 42 > . FY emi 4 ™] 2 3 (
: g Lia WEA pd @w. J. Viavant, University of Oklahoma
Me Yi hig w. H. Wells, Geor gia State University
IRE gal, © Oh | A. WW. Wymors University of Arizons
je k- *) :
gy hair oof % : The existence of thie report is an indication that sufficient interest was aroused
di ho *3 tO GTRAaniae, finance and hold the proposed Conference.

fathematical Society mace available the staff of iis central

t

ba 5

" TY
and Amat 1 Laid

i i 2 |
Aled A, Eg Y, ; y . ~ br -# . ” . ; : pr ] i RR
| : affice in Providence, 2. 1., headed by it8 puecutive Director, Gordon L. Walker,

3 ' C0 3
4 Fe % Ee EE My
| to handle tae administrative and financial matters. with their efficient aid, the

National Science Foundation wad enlisted to finance travel and editorial expenses,

the Shoreland dotel in Chicago, {il., was choaen far the location and Jane 2 ~ 4 19640

 

for the date of the Conference. Appendix A 18 an excerpt of the proposal sent to the

National Science Foundation, which wal approved and thus enabled the Conference to

he held.

 

peri A spss By 059 {ge A SEH Ty
ah Tr mL hah nd ANE FASE INE 3

i r g : 28 mensd aed Phy » r wT ay fon an gl esti an ata
A total of 98 par ticipants attended the Conierents, 26 frou the NOT theastera

BR 7 i < . \ % Eosnrn ine 1 _ 2 a 3% watt $F ove TN ge nr iat a
gtales, 1% sven the sgutheast, 21 yom Las riddle w agt, © ITOYD tae an fthwesy, 13

¢ 5 ame kn i 2 mens Canada an 3 rene tha Nethé wal
of JER tne Ww ef CORO i irom ot Gn TRAD Ld cLiils i Irom Lr AN etherlandas.

{rom the southwest, 9 3%
|

* 3 A 2 , : a 8 4 - Po - on on & 2 ny amg g - J ~~ x Pl . > - $ see a » on
EN Lens w oo i8 4 list 0% these pariics anid. AG of thes ax ® in Caar ie 3 centers with
. ™

, $ . 3 Ee eat “lh onus wr uff EO} fond Atwaltors 2 Yonge pid cond Sous 2 11 enter rr EAE
egipm@ nt ene size OL | LIEGE ©2U, Bal Gis ectors Ok ABT ECT and SMalaTs centers « aT «
on = Se

sosent., Lhus the conference Was TopRuE all parts ol the country a8 |
|

a & “a ok -mx Ft CMT 3 Lae pease B08 .
ny ell le vob Qi ad & SLECS di © pE3 pati ny CELE L Wa
|

un  aemda fF tl Bt T+ $ or OF
Fhe agenia OL the meehing, HAV Sal

-
Sones

1
)
Fr
~~
a

be

’

or

¥-

O

’

i

vy

' >»
oe -l
a

ks

 

p< 254 o 4 we hd i ¢ C yy
=% nar 21 ie use SLO Fd eA 3 3 SN Ho rr Li? 35. = La interest oh 0 Rt Sed fe Lo a |

£ d
$ - 3 ™ oo i 2 : be Fu Ox as oP oo eh 8 mS y > o we ol £ Sg - t£} .
{acussion ify BS aall ¢ STroul 2. paring was IAT OL hy agate SINISE © =a YeLACROLN on Ac

- ”
’
igcussed in nc later 2€s581008 41 ve division OX these LOpICH


3

J——

-

second day the conference split into these five Panels:
1. Com puter-oriented Research {what are the areas, of real intellectual

challenge, for research in the Use of computing machines? How are students to be

“¥

attracted (0 toe8e areas 7} Fanel Chalrman, Ww. #. Kehl, Univer sity of Pittsburgh,
co-chairman, H. RX. Rymer, sorthiwvestern Univer sity.

2. Curriculum and {instruction (what sort of courses are being offered in

cena

“

Computer Science and what others should be offered 3 Panel Chalrman, A. WW, Wymore,

University of Arizona; Co-chairman, BE. ba. Buell, Worcester Polytechnic Institute.

3, Budget and Administration {how should 2 center he finance and what should

   

ins

be its place in the aniversity administration?) panel Chairman, W. J. Viavaat,
University of Oklahoma; co-chairman, W. Ho © ells, Georgia State College.

roa qT

4, Computing Service to the Unive: sity (how can a computing center be a

pa

r

% 3 of 2 yr <x
OA NITMam BETVAS

¢ to the research and education activilies of a woiversity; what sort

’ LR ani Sey id pa ti 3 9% a canal Sem al mssled 5% Dye 0 Pe oe a
of a priority system should be set up and OW should it be administered 'y Panel

mag

PR a § ayn 8 8 5 3 5 TO OR 8 rh mnt mmbar: Lo ralturan. DD. RB. Shre
Reitman, &4- Leenan, SHINVo: SitY ©% & LOCReRLel ; Ow CRE TINA, J, hh. SAT ave,
Ciieial mh 5 Wel Tapa 1% hg oa he

OkianGinsg oleae University.

So TN « . - A» a - T= é : oy - at ey 0 he 2 t 4 ye Re HE ; 2 478 wet 2 2 on aoa i a, en fhe 4 3 Re 3 4
%, LOVE ent Aeliiions {ho ww Should gover gment ag SNClCe 1s af supe rt univer aiy
rec A ————— E — o> n

ET

_ a ’ _.S 5 ty 1 "Te ~ a y ad Re Ee wr aa Toot uw” dn “x Bon Fa y UY “ = is a di % =i. .
compuling centers ¢ § Panel Lhailr resin), wo. SOT Univer say of Penns yivarnis, (sw CREEL ~

"ns pi ‘ . ; . vy »
nm ¥ arlis { oh deed & ir Senbe vt Teoh
ITs SL ee ad 4 ~ 523 L399, wo re & negLe NELITULES LAA J eile
- _— — a Meas by - % y - i Be <a 4 + 39 -
In the Svening af the 2eConG ¢ LY ad on the LRLTae Jy 25CHR £2 yea | LAT IGA

L007" " i> oi oa | Ty 3 | M “ oh ' . w a » ” “. TN - “1 4 — _ wh SN Ve L ais Bt bt " —_— - Ea —
epoTLTa sal A anel's CO nCluBsions tO the Whlnae onierance, OL farther COMING fit;
5s 3 > 3 - - : v A 3 - . ™ A L = . : i - -~ a kk »
modiil CRLION wan POS le raliflCaliuii. L =1 Snel YORE rea } réod 8 of the QS CULE 810%
I. - py #9 - £4 3 2% 4 - . - T Te v
£ saS inal i SRATY 8C S8ions ar BAC 0 AIL ppendic «fF 2 to H AllAce

 

 

|
|
|

|
|
|


i -

GENERAL CONCLUSIONS

Computer science is & new scientific field and computing centers are recent

 

additions to institutes of higher learning. This was the first conference to discuss in
detail curricula related to computer science, as well as the administrative and financial
problems of computing centers in universities. Undoubtedly the greasteat value of the
meeting was in the interchange of ideas between the participants, each learning how
others had solved their problems. Of course, there were many different points of view
and many disagreements on details. Some of these points of view are reported in
Appendices D to HL.

On a number of basic policy questions, however, there was virteal unanimity.
Since these agreed-on conclusions represent the combined experience of the majority
of the directors of university computing centers in this country, they are set down here,
in fhe hope that they will be useful to other directors, and also to univereity and
governmental authorities who are involved in creating new and supporting existing
computing centers. The following two paragraphs summarize the concensus in general
terms; details are given in Appendices ID to I.

High speed computing equipment has already become & necessary part of the
educational and research facilities of mest U. 5. aniversities and ae such should be
supported by the university on the same bagle as other equivalent equipment. General
knowledge of the use of computers is even OW expected of student in many felds ef
science and engineering; Within the next ten years these machines will become a8
integral a part of the educational equipment of a scientific curviculum as is & chemistry
laboratory at present. Decauve of ite potentialities in non-scientific fields {puch as in

commerce and linguistics) as well 28 in scientific ones, 2 university computing center should

be administered and financed as an institution-wide facility, in some respects analogous


5a
in role to a university library.

Though elementary computer coding is quickly taught, even to those with little
mathematics, the problems associated with exploiting fully the potentialities of present
and projected computers are difficult and intellectually challenging, are demanding
the active participation of specialists {rom a wide variety of fields and, in turn, are
stimulating new developments in many existing fields. Experts in the field of computing
science are in very short supply; the shortage will remain acute until more colleges
train more of them, Graduate students, from several intellectual disciplines, can
profitably participate in this research, thereby improving their placement potential,
even in their initial discipline. Knowledge already gained justifies the creation of
several undergraduate and graduate courses of instruction, and the granting of degrees

for studies in computer science.

RECOMMENDATIONS

From theee general conclusions, a number of more specific recommendations
and suggestions arise as correlaries. The more specific the suggestion, the less
complete was the agreement among the conference participants, of course, because of
the wide variety of educational lastitutions and of machine installations which were
represented. Nevertheless, a large majority of conferses supported the following:

A. Finsacing - 4 university or college should be able to support the basic
operating costs of its computing center from its operating funds, though it may need
epecial aid for the initial cost. Under some circumstances it may be advisable to sell
"second- shift time’ to research projects {or nearby industrial or ganizations) which can
afford to pay; however, this sold time should never Le more than half the total available

computing time and it must never interfere with the educational and unsponsored researe

activities of the canter.

Some university computing ceaters recover a portion of their


IIE

oly

operating cOBLS irom the overhead which is part of the budget of all governmentally
and industrially supported research projects at the university. Others obtain partial
support irom long-term grants made directly for the center. In these two cases the
center makes no direct charge for any machine time used by any aniversity faculty
member, studsni OF ragsearch project and no time is granted to any outside organization.

In cases where direct charges musi bemade for machine time io those who can
afford to pay, itis important that the charges be realistic, that they include costs of
staff and administration of the Center, amortization charges for the machine and of the
installation, for example, and not just machine rental costs. A computing center
which is forced to sell the majority of its time in order to survive is an anomaly on &

university campus. {Less than ten percent of the conferees represented centers which

 

sold more than 30 percent of their machine time). Whether the financial support for
operating the center comes from educational funds, overhead or from long-term grants
from industry or governraent, this support should enable the center to carry on its basic
educational and research activities, even if support from sold time is cut off. Most
conferees felt the center should have a separate budget.

8. Service to the University - Because of its potential asefulness to nearly all
intellectual activities, all departments of the university should have easy access to the
computing center {as with the univer gity library). in many institutions the center has

been established as an interdepartmental and interschool facility, with separate budget
and staff, though some of the staff may have joint appointments ¢o the center and to some

appropriate department. In these cases the director of the center should report to an
appropriate scademic authority, such as a Dean or Provost, uot to a purely administra
tive puthority, such as 2 registrar or treasurer. In cases where the center is

administered by a particular academic department, 2 committee, with representation

 

from other participating departments, should be set up to advise on policies and procedures.


yr

   

(Many couleress {elf that such an inter-departmental advisory committee ie always
a desideratam.} Ia general it was agreed that classroom use of the machine should have
firat priority {within certain limits, of course} and that priorities on research time
should not favor the paying users, if there are any.

it alee wos generally agreed that university computing centers should run, 28
far as possible, om an "open-shop" basis, i.e., that the users should program and code
their own problems and, as far as in appropriate with the equipment, should participate
in running the problem on the machine. The task of the center stall, therefore, should
not be to encode probleme for machine users, but should be to instruct in coding and
advise on programming, to maintain a library of standard programs and sub-routines
and to develop machine and programming techaigues which will make the computer
more effective and cagier to use, In exchange for their use of the machine, the users
should be expected to document the new programs which they have developed, eo they
can be incorperated into the program library, being lested and re-written by the center
staff, it important enough. It should be emphasized that thie task of instructing,
advising, improving utility of the machine and keeping the program library up-to-date,
requires staff time of senior academic calibre, as well as machine time.

G. Instruction and Research - Nearly 90 percent of the directors attending the
conference had academic tenure. This is appropriate, for much of the task of the

computing center in 2 university is related to instruction, either in teaching new users
the elements of coding, or ia advising how to program difficult problems or in teaching

or helping to teach courses related to computer science. The elements of coding are
now simple enough so that an under-graduate, with little move than high-school mathe-
matics can begin to use a particular machine after a few hours of instruction (after which

he continues to learn additional instruction and practice, of course.) Many centers give


ghort coding cous GOs
desiring tO BSE the machine

doren oF 89 jectures on coding ar

theo etical 8c fence

< ’y —— “1 Ew ry
{or all machines.

 

 

-B-

three or fous Himes 4 year, for no academic credit. Persons

are usually required to take such a Course. Often & half
o included in one OF more regular subjects, gven
mathematics, OF a begloning course in

Aneerving, oF course on general principles of programming

gych 48 & course in applied

credit,

or eng

(Any course in which the student may ased to use the computer. }

Guhiects, given for credit, which are being ganght LY gtafi members of some

center S, are.

 

 

ramming and of

introduction ID Digital Computation = principles of prog

machine stractars. Turning machines and other logical foundations. A

freshman OF sophomore gubject.
schine Languages theory of compilers,

Advanced Course io Programming «- M
sduate subject.

information processing, signulation, tC. Agenior oF EFS
Theory of Automata - Machine learning. problem solving, game playing etc.

A gradeate subject.

joal desig, switching theorYs ete.

siachine Design ~ Components, 10g

n, graduate gabject.
os recontributing new ideas and points

Cthar pelated cOUr ses tO which eome center stalls

of view, include

pplied Mathematics
OF bericel Analysis
Taformation Theory
Operations Research

Systems analysis

New courses are heing & sdded aac year, o8 the field 12 developing rapidly.

Students May Le attracted to «OF npuler science BY taking one OF more of these

courses; theiv turther training in the field can be supported financicily if the center has


J sands for a namber of student assistantshipe.

Computer scieace is 2 discipline in its owa right; research in this Held should
be indged on its own terms and student work should be recognized by advanced degrees.
Nevertheless, there was no concensus as to whether 2 computation cemter should, now
or eventually, develop into a separate department. One university will soon have such

a department, in some others it is a part of & department of Applied Mathematics. Some

|

directors believe that the subject will eventually develop so a depariment status would
become appropriate. However, maay others felt that the contact of the computer was
sith so many intellectual disciplines that the center should continue to be inter-depart-
mental, so that students could be drawn from, and faculty appointments could be made
jointly with, several departments.

Details of these recommendations, aad a resume of the discussions regarding

them, are to be found in Appendices D to H.

 

FUTURE PLANS
At the final plenary session it was voted that the coramittee, listed on page 1
of this report, continue in existence {0 prepare a Report of this Conference, to collect
and exchange curricula of courses given in Computer Science, to act as a clearing
house for suggestions and problems related to University Computing Centers and to
arrange for further Conierences of this sort in the future, if and when the occasion
warrants it. The Headquarters Office of the American Mathematical Society has agreed

to arrange {or the necessary stail work to implement these possible actions.


