ONR

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation

otk : and Utilization--Investigation into
the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; Iincluding studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis
and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applicatlions of machlne techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new polints of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1050 To determine whether further Support 1s advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organizing what
should be one of the mos ruitful cenfers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machines, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxlliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from 1ts departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research In the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already |
23 1nstitutions have Indicated thelr interest in participating and |
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (1list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facillities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of The use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and buslness., A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and |
willl carry on research of their own 1n machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine

————— e e——