Reprinted from cm. . tmm It
\‘n1.1n, \ln\' 1 ..

[‘rinlt‘l m

 

m u

     

 

Editorial

Research in Electrocardiography

HE application of laws which govern

the ﬂow of electric currents in tissues

to the excitation of heart muscle has
led to the discovery that many fundamental
principles of electrocardiography were clearly
formulated long before tacilit is to express
them by experimental means had become
available. Lately, the easy access to electro-
cardiographic instrumentation has occa.iom
ally reversed the pret ot' deductive reason-
ing. There is a tendency in electroeardiographie
research to adopt rules made to tit expo"-
mental observations and to consider“ geometric
teaching devices as scientific proof. It should
be stressed that (a) the primary gathering of
experimental data, both from human subjects
and from animals, is a neeessa v prereqmsrte
to the advance of clinical electro u'diography,
and that (b) it is equally essential to engage in
the analysis of mathematical concepts for the
solution of practical problems. Both types of
research are neccssary it' empiricism is to be
replaced by scientific knowledge. The paper
by the Wilson school‘ on the precordial electro—
cardiogram may be cited as a clar 'ical example
of the tirst kind; Bayley's paper" on certain
applications of modern electrocurdiographic
theory, as an example of the second. In theI
l'ol‘mcr, experimental information related to
clinical electrticardiography is prcsented with
:1 minimum amount of spccuIat ive background,
in the second, certain relevant aspects of theo-
retical physics are analyzed to formulaic an

  

 

    

   

'23]

For to travel hopefully is a better thing- than
to arrive, and the true success is to labor
R. L. Stevenson”

eleetrocardiographie theory using a minimum
of illustrative experiments.

The analys' of the form 01' the action cur-
rent of the heart has to consider“ three funda-
mental research areas, (a) the electrochemical
properties of the excitable cell and cell aggre-
gates which represent the source of the action
current, (h) the ﬂuid volume conductor
properties of the thorax (a structure of ones-
tionable homogeneity) and (c) the inﬂuence
of the boundary of the thorax (skin and
subcutaneous tissues) which defines the con-
ductor (b) as one of limited dimensions and
may, thereby, alter the distribution of elec-
trical currents at the body surface, Corre—
sponding to these three areas, three outstanding
contriluitions may be cited, all published
before 1890,” which offered a mathematical
treatment for the ‘, basic components of
electrecardiographir analysis. Knowledge of
their existence, if not a detailed study, should
be of importance to those interested in the
binelectric phenomena of the heart.

 

 

’l‘nt: Ewe'raoci ‘MI(1.\L l’uormrrres
Excrrwmir: CELL

 

01" THE

A hypothesis advanced by Bernstein" as—
sumes that the source of bioelcctrrc currents
is located at the boundary between the insidt
ot' the cell and its surroundin s, and that this
boundary has the character tics of a semi~
permeable membrane. .r\(, oss the membrane
sortie ions pass l‘recly, others are held back

     

 

('urulolmn Itct’curili, tutu...» III, Way 13757