- = -
. z % ‘;_.\ : g :
Sh 5 SRS P
e TS o e > g » e
= o Ty Y ARm o . B N e M~ T oy o I e
NN e 23 g ) e —
> - g ReE PN =T ‘- s - —

TRIP REPORT

PLACE VISITED: University of Maine ~ DATE: Jamuary 30, 1958

‘ Orono, Maine

This call was made with Mr. J. J. Byrne, Manager of the Portland Office

- and Mr. J. T. Flynn, Sales Representative, Bangor. We met for luncheon

:  with Prof. R. P. Shay and Prof. T. A. Siedlik of the Department of Businese

- Administration. Prof. Shay had previously made a request for a large quantity
: of IBM cards for use in a course which Prof. Siedlik is teaching. After

discussions with Prof. Siedlik, we were able to deter mine more accurately
his real needs in this matter and Mr. Byrne will order the necessary cards
% and deliver them to him. This will be a much smaller quantity than
iz Prof. Siedlik originally estimated. =

The course Prof. Siedlik is teaching in the Business Administration
Nepartment covers ZAM punch card equipment and a brief discussion of the
IBM 650. He had requested and received 650 manuals for use in the course.
The course meets three hours per week and is a credit course at the university.
We outlined to them the 704 program at MIT and also the 650 program for
universities. They were much more interested in the latter program and they
hope to promote in this field at the university.

At 2 p.m. we met with a fairly large ‘rbup of representatives from various
departmentsof the university. Here, we covered the main purpose of the visit
to the university. People attending this meeting were as follows:

Prof. W. S§. Evans, Dean of the School of Engineering

Mr. Horace A. Pratt, Secretary and Engineer, Technology
Experiment Station .

Prof. 5. H. Kimball, Department of Mathematics

Prof. ¥. J. Sullivan, Associate Professor of Mechanical Zngineering

Prof. R. C. Chase, Instructor, Chemical Engineering Department

Prof. E. R. Weidhaas, Associate Professor of Engineering Graphics

Prof. J. R. Lyman, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering

Prof. O. J. Sproul, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering

Prof. J. Braunstein, Assistant Professor of Chemistiry

Prof. J. L. Wolfhagen, Assistant Professor of Chemiatry

 

I briefed this group of people on the current status of activitieséra the MIT CC
outlining for them the type of problems that were being solved here and the
extent of participation by MIT and other New England universities. I told them
of the functions of the Center as it pertains to the University Of Maine. Also,

I gave them a very brief description of our two principle programming systems -
Share and Fortran., I informed them of the fact that courses were offered here

 

T A - -