COMPUTER SCIENCE RESEARCH PANLL

William B, Kehl, University of Pitteburgh, Chairman
H. W. Rymer, Northwestern University, Co~chairman
Anthony Johnson, University of Chicago, rapporteur
Mr. Fosdick, Brown University, rapporteur

The panel was fundamentally concerned that the quality, depth, and significance
of computer research will determine the academic vole computer science will have in
universities., With this in mind, there was a strong feeling that it was the responsi~
bility most perticularly of the medium as well as larger computing centers to identify
this area of research, re~examine its development as a discipline, and encourage its
growth through all areas of the university, Except where examples were needed, the
group did not concern itself with specific research techniques or results.

In the preliminary plenary session, five problems were proposed for discussion:

1. How do we educate our colleagues to the understanding that this is an active and
worthwhile field for research in its own right?

2. What types of activities and the organization of these can be uniquely identified
and developed with academic standards so that computer science research will
not be considered a subordinate function?

3. How do we interest bright young students to eanter this field?

4, How do we achieve recognition of the center's steff by the university faculty
and how do we find an academic home for the staff?

5. What are the problems of communication between research workers in this
area?

4nd ¥ orthwhile Tield For Research In Tts Dwa Right’ .

The primary task is getting research atarted. The school in which the com=
puting center is comparatively new still expressed a concern over the problem of
educating their colleagues to realize that there is an area of activity that can be
clearly distinguished as computer science research, On the other hand, this need
was not as strongly indicated in those universities where the computer installstion
had a longer history. It would appear that thie is a transitory problem in most cases
and that its duration depends on the mutual simulation and regponse between the
student and faculty as they become exposed to the field. A particular warning was
repeated frequently thaet we were not engaged in the questionable matter of "pursuading”
the faculty or the missionary undertaking to formulate and solve all their problems.
But we should rather give evidence of what can be done with a computer and what
structures are now useful that before the era of computers was not, Misunderstandings