In the long run, the various social scientists in HNew
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them, But i1t takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers in
any field are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic detalls of its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a soclal science and
of a computer, will probably be developed in our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using computers
in social science now, we will have to use a team: a man who knows
the field plus a man who knows the machine.

Need for a Research Staff in Machine Utilization, an
Igggedient in the Team

: This last ingredient is the part which is left out of
the contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-
time staff of enthusiastic machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do 1ts tricks and to Jjoin with
research workers who come with 2 "gleam in their eye", forming

teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's capabllitles
in research., This staff will be hard, but nct impossilble, to
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chiefly toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant of £35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the partici-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun To make
contact with those students who are infterestsd in machine utiliza-
tion. There are about two dozen IBM research assistanta appointed
for this year. We should be able to pick from the best of These a
few who would like to stay on for two or three years more, after
they have obtained their advanced degrees in engineering, mathe-
matics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potentlal
members of research teams.

Budget for the Social Sciencea

To make up a staff which could handle the social sclence
problems as well as the physical sclence cnes would need ancvther
four or five good men, research men plus the technlcilans to back
them up, plus a small budget for travel and incidental supplies
and equlpment, approxlimately 335,000 a ye for three years. 1t
would take about three years to get rolll and the developments
should be reviewed at the end of three years, to see where to go
next. Such a staff should be more iuportant during the beginning
stages of the utilization of electronic computers, when the prob-
lems are not too clearly formulated and when neither partner 1in
the team knows the other’s plans and ideas Later, when some of

ﬂ
a
"

0] H &

12

L

the more important potentialities have been demonstrated, the

research can be split up into projects, each with a definite goal
and with its own budget, which can include partial support for the
continuing staff of the Center. So, eventually, the Center could