1016 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

the spatial dipole angle). A similar correspondence exists between t
three-dimensional boundary distributions with other horizontal di lWo- and
[t 1s, therefore, possible to draw the following conclusion: oS
If the vertical angle a of a dipole in a cylindrical volume conductor is not gy
than aboul +30°, the distribution of potential around the boundary of the cgl .eaéer
al the level of the dipole center will be similar in shape, for the same hor?zfz:::zte;
dipole angles, lo the potential distribution around the boundary of a lwo-dimensional
conduclor having the shape of a cross section through the cylinder. :
It follows from this that two-dimensional measurements can be used to ob-
tain information about the horizontal component of the spatial vector. FiGure
4 gives further evidence of this. These charts show the distribution of po-

 
    
  
   
   

©V MEASURED

108 X V. CALCULATED
POTENTIAL

v
VOLTS

         

+10 +20 +30 +40
DISTANCE ALONG  BOUNDARY

CM.

+ 50

FIGURE 2. Potential distribution around the boundary of a homogeneous thorax cross
section. The dipole angle is 0°. The calculated values are according to EQUATION 12.

tential around the periphery of the deep tank at the level of the dipole center
for horizontal angles (8) of 0°, 30°, 60°, and 90°, and for a vertical angle («) of
0°. Comparison with FIGURES 5 and 6 for the same horizontal angles in the
two-dimensional thorax section shows that the shapes of the potential dis-
tribution curves in the two cases are very similar.

Effect of Electrical Inhomogeneity on the Potential Field

The nature of the distortions of the electrical field caused by a finite boundary
and by the introduction of good and poor conductors was shown in the model
studies of Katz” and discussed by Lepeschkin.® The effect of inhomogeneous
areas can best be shown by a comparison with the field of the dipole in a .hom{)-
geneous medium. The charts of FIGURE 5 are all for a 8 angle of 90‘.’ (in this
paper, positive angles are taken counterclockwise in accordance wgth long-
established mathematical conventions). In FIGURE 5a the section i1s homo-

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1017
oc

=90°

 

A

 

=60°

30°

 

=-90°
L SN T s e

Ficure 3. Potential distribution around the boundary of a deep tank at the level of the
dipole. The horizontal angle is 0°, and the vertical angle is +90° to —90° at 30° intervals.
Compare with FIGURE 2.

geneous, and the departure of the field distribution from that of a dipole in an
infinite medium is due solely to the effect of the boundary. The curves shown
are the equipotentials, with values as marked. The curves on the right show
the variation of potential around the boundary as before. The broken curves
show the potential gradient along the boundary. This is defined as