NEW OR IMPROVED CONSTRUCTIONAL TOY AND EDUCATIONAL DEVICE

 

This invention concerns a new or improved
toy and educational device for young children
and the object of the invention is to provide a
simple harmless article which will both amuse
and educate.

According to the invention there is provided
a device which comprises a baseand a plurality
of small individual elements each provided with
a spigot and also with one or more holes or
recesses so as to be adapted for interconnection
by engaging the spigots in the recesses and for
connection to the base which is also provided
with cooperating recesses. Thus the elements
may be built up upon the base and one upon
another in various constructional forms and
numerical order. Thus the toy can be used
whilst constructing various amusing shapes or
structures.

In the embodiment of the invention the toy
comprises a wooden base of rectangular form
provided with three rows of vertically disposed
cylindrical recesses in its upper side.

The recesses in each row are equally spaced
from one another and the spacing of the recesses
in all the rows is the same but the recesses of
the centre row are offset or staggered with
respect to those in the outer rows.

In combination. with this base there are pro-
vided twenty individual elements each in the
form of a wooden sphere and each provided
with a radially projecting spigot preferably of
slightly frustro-conical form. Each sphere is
also provided with a series of radial recesses
which may be formed by drilling diametrically
through or radially into the sphere. Preferably
one radial recess is aligned with the spigot and
tWo or more other similar recesses are arranged
with their axes transverse to the spigot.

_ The spigot on each sphere is adapted to fit
Into any of the recesses of the other spheres or
Into one of the recesses in the base.

By making the spigots of a slightly tapered
form a reasonably tight fit of the spigots into
the recesses is achieved and compensation ic
provided for wear in the spigots and recesses.

The spigots of the spheres are preferably
made integrally with the spheres.
~ Although an article according to this invention
18 very conveniently made of wood it should be
understood that it may be made partly or wholly
in other materials.  For instance the article

could very conveniently be made from synthetic
resin mouldings.

Exhibit 6

 

FASTENER

    
   

 

7 a’ 4 /t
/:IIJ —'l"'ll/ X

227222

JF I3

    

Our present invention consists in a novel and
improved  method of interchangeable fasteners,
as well as an improved fastening apparatus.

Broadly considered, our invention consists in
the provision of devices which will enable dif-
ferent sets of ornaments for apparel or the like
to be utilized on the same fastening members.

Referring to the fastener the outer, upper or
finished button member is designated generally
at 1. This button comprises an inner flanged
shell 2 in circular form, with a central socket
portion 3 struck up therein, having a pair of
grooves or recesses 4, 4, cut in the shank part
O to receive the end portions 6, 6, of a spring
10, the latter having its main part housed
against the flange 2 of the shell and maintained
in position by curving over the edge 7 of the
flange of said shell or body portion2. This con-
Struction forms the socket member of the
fastener herein illustrated.

Attached to the shell or body portion 2 is the
finished element 12, preferably in the form of a
concavo-convex button surface.

By having a series or set of different colored
elements 12 for the buttons, the manufacture of
our fasteners with a plurality of sets of colored
buttons for interchangeable attachment, is ac-
complished. This element 12 may be applied in
any desired manner, but we prefer tosecure the
same firmly to the button portion, for this pur-
Pose utilizing a ring 15 turning in the edge
portions 16 and 17 upon the marginal edge of the
element 12 and of the shell or body member 2.
The combined button and fastener thus described
can be utilized either as an interchangeable
finished member for our invention, and for this
purpose may be attached to and detached from
other colored or finished buttons.

To cooperate with the button as thus far
described, we provide an intermediate fastener
member consisting in the plate or body portion
20 and stud 21, the latter of suitable form,
length and size to fit within the socket 3 and
having a neck 22 arranged to snap by and there-
after be secured by the end portions 6, 6 of the
spring 10. In order to make this member also
a cooperating detachable fastener element, we
provide a pair of recesses 24, 24, through one
portion of the neck 22, and fit within the body
portion 20 a spring 25, having its end portions
26, 26, corresponding with the end portions 6,
6, of the spring 10 already described. Tis
spring is retained within the member 20 by its
normal expansibility and the turning over of the
edge portion 27 thus affording a marginal recess
therefor. To cooperate with the intermediate
fastener 20 just described, a third fastener
element 30 is arranged, having a stud 31 adapted
to fit within a combined stud and socket member
21 of the intermediate fastener 20, the neck por-
tion 32 being arranged to “snap” by the spring
ends 26 in the same manner as that already
described.

Exhibit 7