‘ - 2 HE =. CT vlad ERE Ng a LT Pe A BLT Sway, of SR Tee Se CR ART SEA 5 hs a er dw A ET .
= - = in a SUSAR ; Foy 3 i ANCE] T ~~ hs, A > A A $Y - Eo NEAT LS ed
| Ih er «REEL CE a SSE ih ay bE peas at PF ITE EL A gh XE aw Wa. al CREEP ai Ra 2 co hep Ly Te, ud 2 a
wes, ET AER a E 3) = Si Og a wi i Se Ai Far t ie = + WR PIR ak to
h v # - Ye = < 3

 

HR WEAR TR ER,

ad

;
:

Room 7-308 A

4

July 30, 1954 :

x

Pr. J. A. Stratton i
Room 10-200 w
: AM - I . T ~ py
Dear Dr. Stratton: b
In accordance with your request, I have prepared a memo- 5

randum concerning the proposed space change for the Office of 4)
Statistical Services. As I mentioned to you in our discussion, the ot
prime purpose for preparing this is to give you my thoughts on the big
matter. :

I also felt it advisable to indicate that I thought the
change may have certain adverse effects on the operating efficiency
of this office, particularly in connection with those services per-~ “
formed for the Administrative offices. Should you therefore hear =
of dissatisfaction from the Administrative Officers in the future,
you will understand some of the reasons.

I again wish to emphasize the last statement of my report,
namely, that I understand your position in this matter and I certainly
shall make every effort to see that Statistical Services continues to

succeed.

Sincerely yours,

F. M Verzuh

Director
v:t 4

ce: Mr. J. J. Snyder
Prof. P., M. Morse
Mr. J. A. Little


Memorandum on the Proposed Space Change
for the

Office of Statistical Services

July 29, 1954

¥. M. Verzuh

TET


Table of Contents

INtrOAuBtIOn . + + + « * » & + + ow 2% uw ww

Services Rendered by the Office of Statistical
Self-Service Operation of IBM Equipment. . . .
Space Requirements for Statistical Services. .
Space Request Made by Computation Committee. .
Suggested Space Allocation . , . . . . . . .

Machine Room Specifications. . . . . . . . . .
Conclusion A ER Ca

ig

ef or Bb WD OW ON


introduction

The purpose of this memorandum is to discuss the proposed
transfer of this office to Wing C of Building 20 and its posible effect
upon ihe services rendered. i would like to emphasize that this memo-
randum is written to present Some of the operational aspects associated
with effective operation and pot as a criticism of the proposed move.

As part of the historical background of gtatistical Services,
it is well to recsll that this office Was organized as an Administratéve
office in 1950, with the primary objective of aechanizing the activities
of the larger gdministrative offices such as Alumni, Bursar and Registrar.
A central location was therefore selected because it was felt that this
was essential to effective communication and lisison with the various
administrative offices which it would Serve.

card system: Temporary roll cards, final student roll cards, master
subject cards, student tuition, student health insurance, dining-dorm
statistics, alumni records, new Alumni Register, ote. As a result, we
have also provided 1isting and addressing service te the administrative
offices as well a8 department headquarters and Institute committees.
All of this, of course, necessitates & great deal of trucking cards and
date back and forth between the offices as well as intercommunication
between the office personnel. The essentialness of a central location
has therefore been evident.

Services Rendered by the office of Statistical Services

The present activities of this office may be divided into the
following categories:

1. Academic: Laboratory exercises and thesis research,

2. Administrative office services,

3, Scientific Computation: academic and p.1.¢. research,

4. Research in Business Applications and development of new
computational techniques.

tt is immediately evident that certain of these activities may be per-
formed egually well in either 2 central or a peripheral location ~~
assuming equal working conditions. Eowever, the services performed for
the Administrative offices and certain of the scientific computing
projects demand a central location to minimise the communication and
transportation problems.

specifically, the following administrative offices require 8
continuous liaison to effect proper service:


Qffice Individuals Contact Frequency
Admissions Office Kingsbury weekly
Alumni Association Severance McCabe ,Smity ,McPortland daily
Alumni Placement every other day
Bursar's Office Quinn, Smith daily
Cashier's Office daily
Loan Fund Mathies weekly
Registrar Hewes, Groggett daily

In addition to the above need for correct instruction from individuals in
charge rather than messengers, there is the ever-present problem of trans-
porting the punched cards to and from each of these offices. In certain

cases the volume of cards is quite large (Alumni = 160,000; Registrar = 86,000,
ete. -- where each 10,000 cards weigh 60 lbs.) and the task of transporting
these cards cannot be minimized.

At the present time, the Alumni Assoc. provides a courier to
transport cards daily between Buildings 1 and 7. It must be recognized
that the present ‘under shelter” route requires use of but one elevator;
whereas, theproposed move would necessitate se of 3 elevators and outdoor
exposure, including dampness, raln and snow. (Needless to say, punched
cards which have been exposed to the elements will not function properly’
in standard IBM machines and will seriously impede the operational efficiency.)
It ie estimated that 1/2 hour will be required for each one-way trip. |

Several guestions naturally arise: What is the proper calibre of
courier which must be employed for this transportation problem§j Under the
existing mode of operation, there have been occasiongl errors in inter-
office card handling. How will the incidence of error be affected under
the proposed system] How much will the present operating costs be in-
creased? What effect will the increased cost have on the volume of
services rendered--particularly in view of the present mode of austerity
operation? (It must be remembered that each administrative office
currently cancels IBM work whenever the service costs are greater than
manual methods,” e.g. the Student Directory.)

 

Self-Service Operation of IMI Equipment

The advent of the Card Programmed Calculator (CPC) and the use
of standard repetitive work programs oa other machines has resulted in
the extensive self-service use of the punched-card equipment. Specifically,
the following tabulation indicates some of the seli-gervice users:

Group individuals

1. DACL Misses KE. Kavanagh, M. Merwin and Nr. Isom

2. FCL Miss V. Brenton, Messrs. E. Larson and W. Yhelan

3. Inst. Lab. Messrs. Battin, Frey, Laning, O'Keefe, Block,
Prongay, and Dailey. Misses Bain, Jeggetts, Petrick
and Sullkvan

4. HNSL Messrs. T. Martin, J. Hill, Mrs. Friedman and Staley

5. Math Messrs. Burrows, Glantz, Klein, Phipps and Segal

6. Physics Messrs. Corbato, Newstein, Temkin and Yilmaz.


-3-

Admittedly, these users are performing either D.I.C. sponsored research
or thesis research which can presumably be performed equally well at aay
location except for possible personal inconvenience.

 

Realistically, however, it is well to nétice the similarity
between the proposed space change iz OBS and the existing spatial separa-
tion of the Whirlwind Computer located in the Barts Building. In the
case of Whirlwind, it was found that the physical separation from M.I.T.
main buildings was so critical that a specially-staffed Problem Inguiry
and Preparation Room (Room 10-212) had to be installed during 1953. In
this manner, staff "who would never walk to Barta" are encouraged to
use the facility. It is alse of interest to mote that a complete,
duplicate punched-card instellstion wes set up at the Instrumentation
Laboratory to minimize the traffic problem between Whittemore and
Building 7.

Epace Requirements for the Office of Statistical Services

A consideration of the floor plans reveals that 08S currently
occupies the following space:

Bay Area (8q. Ft.)

3-408 350

3-411 3860

3-413 960

3-422 480

3-427 350 (storage)

7-308 3580

Dome 400 (storage)
Total = 3240

For the sake oi the record, it is well to indicate the space currently
associated with the Differential Analyzer (RDA):

Bay Area (Sg. Ft.)
7-308 (2) 700
7-303 (4) 1400
3-328 360
Total = 2450

This space will be available as soon as the RDA is destroyed. As 2 matter
of fact, the Machine Shop (Room 7-302) has been transferred te R. 10-48},
and Bay 7-302 is now availsble for renovation.

Space Request Made by Computation Committee

In accordance with the long-range plans for a Computation Center
prepared by the Machine Computation Committee, & request for four additi-
tional bays of space was made on April 23, 1954. At that time it was


suggested that Statistical Services occupy the following space:

Bay Areca (8q. Ft.)
7-308 700
7-303 1400
7-306 350
7-308 350
3-427 350
Total = 3150

This proposed consolidation on the third floor was predicated on the
utiligation of the $40,000 Precipitron and Air Filter Unit and the
associated computer room electrical power lines which were installed
by the Center of Analysis for RDA use. I feel that decisions regarding
space allocation should consider these items.

In accordance with the Morse Committee's long-range computa-
tional plans, the following additional space was requested:

Bay Area (Sq. Ft.)
3-409 380
3-411 350
3-413 960

Total = 1660

This space was to be used to accomodate the large-scale computers which
are to be installed in the not-too-distant future.

Suggested Space Allocation

It is quite evident that the space currently occupied by
Statistical Services (Bays 3-409, 3-411, 3-413, 3-423, 3-427 and 7-308)
are adequate for the present mode of operation. Admittedly, the long-
range plans of the Computation Committee cannot be realized in the
present space. However, it is my understanding that space for "giant
slide-rule computers is to be provided in the new Nuclear Research
Building which is to be erected in approximately two years. It is
therefore suggested that Statistical Services occupy its present space
until the new building is available for occupancy. Certainly this will
eliminate any need for financial expenditures associated with relocation,
reinstallation, air conditioning, power installation, painting, lighting,

etc. which would naturally be associated with the proposed move tomBldg. 20.

(The cost of renovating two bays 23-409 and 3-411 in 1952 was $7,000 and it
seems extravagant to repeat the expense unnecessarily.)

The above suggestion would provide Architecture with Bays 7-302,
7-303 and 3-329 or 2450 sg. ft.


Characteristics of the Machine Room - Space Specifications

Certain operational characteristics associated with punched
card machine operation must be recognized:

1. High-level illumination is required to minimize operator
error, particularly on the current 24-hour work schedule.
(The holes in the card appear particularly small at 2 s.m.).

2. A clean, dust-free ares is required since all of the ma-
clines employ non~dust-proof wire relays. Maintenance is
minimiged in clean machine rooms. For example, the I.B.NM.
Service Dept. blamed excessive machine malfunctioning in
1948 on the dirty condition prevalent in Bldg. 20. (A
Precipitron would be useful.) At the present loeation,
the machine service is down to 5% per month, whereas it
was as high as 50% in Building 20. (Part of this dirt
is due to the wood floors which collect dust, etc.)

3. Air conditioning or other means of eliminating heat are
required. The 604 Electronic Calculator and the Card
Programned Calculator (CPC) dissipate 21,000 and 27,000 BTU
respectively. All IBM installations of this type (except
M. I. T.) are operated in air-conditioned offices.

4. Adequate work space is essential to minimize the incidence
of human operator error.

Conclusion

This memorandum contains some of the facts associated with
the operation of the Office of Statistical Services. The present types
of service are described, and the need for a central location for ef-
fective mechanization of administrative activities is emphasized.

It is evident that the proposed location in Building 20 will
require a certain installation cost and will demand extensive use of
couriers and transportation facilities. It is quite evident that the
Statistical Services cannot be responsible for the communication and
transportation lines between it and each of the Administrative offices.
Clearly, each Administrative office should provide its own courier and
transportation medium. Statistical Services will sct on and service all
material delivered to it, but the responsibility of accurate and proper
delivery of instructions and cards should reside with each individual
administrative office.

Naturally, this proposed modus operandi will fmpose operational
difficulties on all associated operating personnel. The attendant cost
of operation will be increased and many of the present services may be
discontinued by the Administrative Offices for they will become exces-
sively expensive. This condition may become sufficiently aggravated to
force discontinuance of most administrative activities. If this should
happen, it would be most unfortunate as many years of hard work would
have been wasted!


Perhaps the above deduction is overly pessimistic. However,
the proposed location in Building 20 will possibly encourage decentralizma-
tion of the punched-card facilities. Soon each Administrative Office may .
request individual machines for their own offices and a general 12-unit |
decentralized-type of operation may result, such as at Harvard. Clearly,
this resultant type of operation would be direct contradiction to the

centralized-type of service which has been the basis of Statistical
Bervices.

Certainly, the real disadvantages, limitations, etc. must be
considered as well as the advantages before a definite deciision con-
cerning space reallocation is made.

In closing, I again wish to emphasize that I personally am not
acting as an obstructionalist” in this proposed space change. I merely
wish to record some of the possible difficulties which will arise in
the execution of administrative services. In any case, irrespective of
the outcome of the decision on space, I want it understood that I shall
make every effort to make the Statistical Services succeed.

¥. M. Verzuh
July 29, 1954
ce: J. J. Snyder

J. A. Little
P. HM. Norse


