Page 1 of 3

M.I.T. Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

MEMORANDUM
To: °  P. V. Cusick ‘Date: November 27, 1956
From: F. M. Verzuh

Subject: Bursar's Accounts To Be Used in the M.I.T. Computation Center

 

In accordance with cur discussions concerning the list of Bursar's |
Accounts which are to be used in connection with the M.I.T. Computation Center,
I have prepared the attached list of accounts. This list has been discussed
with Professors Morse and Floe, and Hessrs. P. V. Cusick, J. A. Little,
F. L, Foster, T. W., Bowilcik, and F. M. Verzuh, and has met with their approval.

In regard to the matter of the National Science Foundation Account,
Dr. Foster insists that the NSF Appropriation remain as a DSR project «= 1
DSR 7573 has been set up for this account. The NSF project will therefore
rengin as a DSR project where charges to the account will be made from the
M.I.T. Computation Center OPERATING Account (2756).

The Computation Center has been set up as an interdepartmental
laboratory with set of accounts analogous to that of an academic department, and
these accounts will be budgeted in what is commonly known as the gray folder
budget procedure. The following accounting office numbers have heen assigned:

A STAFF SALARIES | #1545

For salaries of certgin members of computation staff,

BE ACCESSORY TO TEACHING #1550.26
Secretarial pssistance to zbove staff members.

C STAFF SALARIES #15806 ,32

For DSR credits received for any men in the first account who is
charged toc a DSR contract.

D ACCESSORY TO TEACHING # 1556.26

Secretarial salaries charged to DSR contracts.

B EXPENSES #1783

Miscellaneous expenses such as, special lecturers honoraria, etc.

, not covered by any 1EM agreement or contract which should be
charged to MIT General Funds rather than the Computation Center
Operating Account. ;

The pbove accounts are charged to the Institute {(epmeral Funds...

nc


cC-2

1

 

E.I.T. Computation Center Page 2 of 3

LIST OF CQPUTATION CENTER FUND ACCOUNTS

The following accounts are chargeable to various special grants and

other sources of ope rating income:

Computation Center OPERATING Account #2756

Income received in this account will be derived from a
programming service charge levied ggainst all users of the
Computation Center facilities, These monies will be used to
cover operating costs -~ salaries of schedulers, key punch -
operators, machine operators, programmers, analysts, and
other salaries and expenses occasioned by the use of the
Center beyond specific activities of the IBM contract.

PARTICIPATING Colleges Operating Account - IBM #2757

IBM has agreed to pay $10,000 to cover the cost of expenses
incurred in scheduling, administrating, and servicing the
New England colleges operations as described in Paragraph 16
in the operating agreement.

MIT Machine Operator Account - IBM - #2757A

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay the salaries of one |
key punch operator and two machine operators as described in |
Paragraph 17 of the operating agreement.

N.E. Colleges Machine Operator Account - IBM #27578

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators for the second
skift as soon as the 704 machine usage in the second shift

is adequate -- as described in Paragraph 18 of the operating

agresment.
HIT Research Assistant-Associate Account - IBM #2797C

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay $30,000 per year to
defray the salary expense of research assistents and associates
assigned to the Center in accordance with Paragraph 19 of the
operating agreement.

ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION FUND #2759

The Rockefeller Foundation has appropriated $98,000 for a
three~year program in connection with the M.I.T. Computation Center,

National Science Foundation Fund #DSR 7873

The National Science Foundation has approprizsted a $30,000
grant for support of the Computation Center sctivities.


M I T. Computation Center Page 3 of 3

SS ——————————— —— 5.

Management Account - IBM #2850
The X.B.M. Corporation has sgreed to pay for the cost of
electric power for the machines and air conditioning 5s for
the maintenance and repair contracts on the air conditioning
equipment, and for an appropriate portion of the janitorial
and maintenance service of the building as defined in
Paragraphs 12-15 of the operating agreement.

 

Computation Center Machine Maintenance and

8 HIT Project Accounts

Various MIT projects (both DSR and departmental) will make
use of the facilities in the Computation Center. These
projects will De assessed a programming service charge to
cover the cost of services rendered by the Center. Of course,
the individual account number involved in each case will vary
depending on the project involved.

FP. B, Yerzuh
11/27/56


