—, \|”\1"5l\/\ AKADEMIA NAUK

INSTYTUT MASZYN MATEMATYCZNYCH

Waorszawa 2, vl. Koszykowa 79
Tel 21-84-41 — 49

11/)C[ 196 3r.

Warszawa, dnia

“krol fe'egr. IMMAT
177/63 EW
L. dz Professor S.M. Ulam
University of California
Los Alamos Scientific Laboratoey
Los Alamos, New Mexico.

Dear Professor Ulam,

Thank you very much for your letter of October 10
and your kind readiness to help me in arranging my possible
stay in the United States. I wish emphasize that as tThings
now stand one year of scientific treining in the U.,S.A, is
2 macuver of great importance for me., Hitherto, heing swamped
with scientific and organization work, I was not able to
leave my post for so long a time. At present my SOJjOurm
to the United States for the academic year 1564/1965 might
be most real and advisable. The essential question is to
choose an appropriate institution in the U.,S.A. and to
obtain its invitation.

 

It seems to me that the easiest and most advantageous
way of getting a scientific stage would be a contract as
visiting professor for the academic school year 1964/65 to
one of the universities in the United States. Several of
my colleagues - mathematicians have already been under such
conditions in the Upited States, and the results of their
one-year stay were most favorable. ‘

A contract with a firm like IBM seems to me much more l
difficult to be arranged, and the possibility of obbaining
a fellowship, besides beeing difficult too - less advan-
tageous.

As far as a contract with an university is concerned,
may I take the liberty of suggesting the University of
Penne, because, according to my knowledge, there exists
a large group of scientists developping languages and
programming problems which is close to my interest. Moreover,
I am personally acquinted with some scientists of this
Upiversity.

In Munich I had the pleasure of meeting prof.M.Rubinoff,
He promised to help us to establish contacts between our
countries. Being Executive Director of AFIP /American
Federation of Information Processing Societies/ he even
promissed to take advise of Dr, Willms M. Ware, the President
of AFIP, in order to manage an exchange of American and
Polish experts, similarly as 1t was the case of the American-
Russian exchange. In spite of not having any news from