COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes of the Seventh Meeting
March 10, 1954

Persong Present: L. J. Chu, H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester,
F. B. Hildebrand, P. M. Morse, W. W. Seifert,
F. M. Verzuh

Morse reported progress on the request to the NSF for
support of a Conference on Numerical Tables. The rest of the
meeting was given over to a discussion of assistantship applica-
tiona for next year.

We have now 11 graduate assistants and one post-doctoral
associate; we could afford twice as many next year but only about
as many the year after. Of the 12 now here, four assistants and
the assoclate will probably terminate this spring, so we could
appoint 15 new assistants and two post-doctoral associlates, though
some of tThese could only be supported for one year. -

The Mathematica Department will not have Aronson or
Miss Lister on this proJject next year, but the other four will
remain. They propose Edgar Reich as a post-doctoral associate
(if he will accept; Lin will report whether he will accept) and
A. Ralston as half-time assistant. Another man, MeIlroy, may
be recommended later.

The Physics Department will lose Newstein and Yilmaz
and Rubinow (and Little has already transferred to the Operations
Research project) so there are only three men continuing. Two
men who have been on leave of abaence this year, Uretsky and
Sartorl; wish to return, and two others, E. L. Garwin and A. Tubis,
were also proposed. Three more, R. N. Euwema, Miss Winkel, and
N. K. Glendenning appeared possible and will be reported on next
meeting. Feshbach had a letter from a W. E, Williams of
Manchester, England; Morse is t0 inquire of his abilities and
background.

Of the four other Assistants, Hoy, Vozoff, Sydney, and
O'Dennell, Sydney i1s finishing and O'Donnell is possibly finishing.
The Civil Engineering Department indicstes there may be a new
man, which they will propose next time.

The next meeting will be at 3:00 p.m., Wednesday,

April 7.
Q\SSN$¢LSL_‘-_
PhilNip\M. Morse

Chailrman
PMM: JM