interests over the affective and cognitive aspects of
human behavior in organizations, with perhaps an
“overemphasis” (in terms of the current distribution of
research effort) on the cognitive side. : .

Method has been as diverse as substance 1n organiza-
tion theory. Organizations have been studied in the field
by interview, by observation, and occasionally by con-
trolled experiments. Organization-like groups have
been “grown” in the laboratory and subjected to qbser-
vation and experimentation. Quite recently, ind1v1d1.lal
and organizational behaviors have been simulated with
electronic computers. Direct experience with all the.se
methods was represented in the staff and participants in
the institute; the members of the staff are generally
identified with quantitative approaches, laboratory €x-
periments, and computer simulation.

PARTICIPANTS

In a research training institute, the line between
“staff” and “participants” is, and should be, tenuous.
The participants were all experienced in research on
organizational or other social behavior. A roster will
give some impression of the range of interests: Warren
Bennis, John Lanzetta, and Harold Leavitt in psy-
chology; Robert Hamblin, Norman Kaplan, John Pock,
and Charles Warriner in sociology; John Harsanyi,
mathematical economics; Stanley Hollander, marketing
administration; Edith Lentz, hospital administration;
Solomon Levine, labor economics; and Daniel Shim-
shoni, military administration. Like all melting pots,
this one provided in its diversity both opportunity and
complexity. Sociological accents could sometimes be
distinguished from psychological ones; field research
workers wondered at the strange customs of the small-
group laboratory, and vice versa; and from time to time
the initiates in the mysteries of mathematics performed
their sacred rites to the wonderment and (I hope) en-
tertainment of the others.

Since the cultural diversity was blended with tolerance
and maturity, ethnocentrism did not too much impede
mutual learning. There were times, to be sure, when
members of the institute sought solace and support in
the company of fellows from a particular subculture;
and some polarization into a qualitative, descriptive,
field research approach and a quantitative, model-
building, laboratory approach was discernible. However,
communication across these boundaries did not break
down.

As theorists of organizational behavior, the members
of t.he institute were aware of the status problems in
their own group, and interested in the way in which
the relation between staff and other participants would

 

 

develop. We did not yield to the temptation to turn the
institute into a ‘“Bethel” directing its attention inward
to its own organization. Nevertheless we were conscious
that the relation between staff and participants would
have to be worked out, and that it would have to lie
somewhere on the continuum between a teacher-student
relation, on the one hand, and that of colleagues, on the
other. The staff, in planning the institute, had hoped
for the latter and were (perhaps naively) surprised at
the number of organizational forces—particularly those
arising from the need for procedural leadership—that
pushed the relation in the former direction. For one
thing, the “parochialism” referred to above gave the
local staff enough feeling of mission to make an im-
partial chairmanship role difficult for them. In the first
few weeks a relation developed in which most members
felt comfortable, but in which the staff could hardly
claim to be nondirective—and was even less so in mat-
ters of substance than in matters of procedure. The
main dysfunction to which this gave rise was that par-
ticipants who were interested in descriptive field studies
and qualitative approaches sometimes felt, with justice,
that they were outvoted.

PROGRAM

In planning the institute, the staff had tried to be
realistic about what could be accomplished in six weeks.
We were skeptical of the value of discussions of
methodology abstracted from concrete research situa-
tions. Consequently, we tried to organize the first four
weeks of the program around the analysis of some actual
studies of organizations, inasmuch as participants in
those studies were present. With this basis, various sub-
groups of participants, we thought, might devote their
main effort during the last two or three weeks either to
analyzing and reworking data from the studies that had
been examined or to formulating specific research un-
dertakings of their own. In selecting the staff for the
institute, we sought persons who could provide the
group with specific examples of several research ap-
proaches to the study of organizations: experimental
simulation of sizable organizations, in the case of Chap-
man; laboratory study of small groups, in the case of
Bales; survey methods, in that of Pelz; and computer
simulation and intensive field studies, in the case of the
Carnegie group.

Our expectations, in constructing the program in this
way, were only partly realized. We were successful 1n
avoiding any great amount of abstract, methodological
debate, and in securing tolerance in our discussions for
great diversity of method. We were less successful in
persuading the members to devote major effort to €X-