U. S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS

ADDRESS REPLY TO IN YOUR REPLY

FILE NO.
NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS REFER TO

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Dear Sir:

The National Bureau of Standards is planning, conditional upon
support by the National Science Foundation, to inaugurate a Training
Program in Numerical Analysis for Senior University staff.

The purpose of this program is to give regular university staff,
heretofore specializing in fields different from numerical analysis,
a training in that field which will enable them to direct the operation
of a university computing center, and to organize training and research
in numerical analysis on their return to their own institutions. It
will occupy the whole of the second semester of the academic year
1956-1957 (from February ll to June 9) and has been arranged at that
time so that narticipants may get familiar with the details of their
own computing equipment during summer and be able to conduct courses
in the acadamic year 1957-1958.

Details of the course are given on the attached sheets. In
order that individual attention can be given the number of participants
will be limited to twelve. Selection will be made on the basis of
qualifications of the individual and of the computational program of his
institution by a committee approved by th. Mathematics Division of the
National Science Foundation. Grants will be made to the parent
institution of one half the individual's salary, and the whole of his
travel expenses and subsistence.

This preliminary announcement. is made in view of the short time
for selection of candidates, and consequent re-arrangement of teaching
schedules, in the hope that you can give it some thought at once. If
your department would like to take advantage of this program, please
let us know the names of your candidates at once.

Sincerely yours,

Jobe OD rtp

John Todd, Chief
Numerical Analysis

Encl.


Attachment 1

Program

We would emphasize that this is not a course in coding for machines -
problems will have to be run on the NBS machines but the audience need only
become expert on their own machines. It will be given by mathematicians
for mathematicians.

The training program would be in three parts:

a) 2 weeks:

Introduction to numerical analysis and to programming for automatic

computers.

During this phase participants would prepare small sample problems
and run them on the Bureau's high speed computer in order to get some idea
of problems involved.

The basis of the formal teaching here would be the discussion of a
complex of problems which illustrate various topics in numerical apalysis
and programming for automatic computers; the program could be readily
adapted for computers different from that at the Bureau.

b) 13 weeks:

Survey of various chapters in numerical analysis and observaticn
of operation of a general purpose computation laboratory.

During b) each participant would do a computation problem, preferably
in his own field, on the machine. Expert coding assistance would be
given to each participant so that he should not be unnecessarily in-
volved in the Bureau's machine. At the same time participants could observe

in detail the complete handling of major problems.


<9 -

Formal instruction in b) would be in two directions: b') one week courses
in various topics in numerical analysis, say one lecture per day, and b")

similar courses in supporting mathematics.
A rough outline of topics would be:

Classical numerical analysis

Linear equations and inversion of matrices

Non-linear equations

Characteristic values of matrices

Quadrature, ordinary differential equations

Partial differential equations

Integral equations

Linear programming and game theory

Statistical calculations

Discrete variable problems: number theory and combinatorics
Experimental mathematics; developable areas in numerical analysis.

Np

Owosso unuP Ww

—

Each of these short courses might consist of:
A comparative survey of methods
A detailed discussion of a particular method
A review of practical experience
A discussion of an example worked on the NBS machine
b". 1. Theory of approximation
Bounds for characteristic values
3. Applications of functional analysis: error bounds for linear
processes and estimates of quadratic functionals
4. Asymptotics
5. Turing machines, recursive functions.
These surveys cannot be comprehensive - each week's course could well be
expanded into a semester one. However, there will be ample time for
participants, who are specially attracted to a particular topic, to get
together with the local expert, so that they can be brought up-to-date
in the subject.
c) 1 week:
Administrative problems.

Various topics such as financing, equipping, staffing, and maintaining

a computing center would be discussed. There could also be discussions of


-3-

-

 

vocational guidance. production computation and lisisoR with ofder customer
Cepartments of the orgasizstion.
Staffing

The program will de under the general direction of Nr. John Todd,
Chief, Numerical Analysis Section. Applied Mathomatics Division, National
Bureau of Standards. He will de assisted by Dr Henry A. Antosiewics.,
Dr. P. Davis, Dr. M. Newman, Dr. M. Marcus, Dr. Ky Fan. Major comtridbutions
will also come from Dr. O. Taussky snd Dr F. Oberhettinger in part bd)

and from Dr. F.L. Alt in part c.
The detailed coding assistance will be given by selected members of
the Computation Laboratory under the direction of Dr. M. Abramowits .

It is expected that special topics will be covered in guest lectures
from mathematicians such as:

Dr. J. H Curtiss

Professor J.W. Givens
Professor Marshall Hall, Jr.
Professor P. Lax

Professor R. Richtmyer
Professor J. B.Rosser

Dr. S. M. Ulam

Professor H. F. Weinberger
Professor D. M. Young

Professor H. Cohn


