Minutes of Meeting of Committee
on
Machine Methods of Computation

November 29, 1950

ﬂapper; Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, Z. Kopal,
P. M. Morse and E. heissner

Professors Kopal and Forrester presented the Committee
with the general subjects which are included in the Electrical
Engineering general doctor's examination. They come under
nine general headings:

Circuit Theory

Power Machinery
Magnetic Circuits
Engineering Electronics
VT Circuits

Electrical Measurements
Transmission Lines
Basic Physics I

Basic Physics 11

QWQC‘Ut-bWNI-J

After considerable discussion the Committee felt that probably
a man taking a doctor’s degree in the E. E. Department, with
specialization in computing macnines, should be required to
pass an examination in the majority of these subJects, but
that perhaps one—third of them could be dropped and in their
place more material on Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
could be required. It was suggested tentatively that power
machinery and electrical measurements might be dropped, and
that in their place questions could be asked on differential
equations, complex variables, algebra and numerical analysis,
corresponding to about the length and depth of the questions
on the two omitted subjects. In addition, it was felt that
Basic Physics II could be somewhat remodeled to include more
of Theoretical Physics, particularly of electromagnetic theory
than is given to most of the E. E. candidates. It was felt
that the Committee should discuss this with Professor Brown

at its next meeting, if Professor Brown were able to attend.

The Committee then went on to discuss the four E. E.
doctor's candidates who have already taken their qualifying
examinations and are beginning, or are about to begin, their
thesis research. It was reported that Mr. Salzer already has
a supervisory committee consisting of Professors Kopal, hazen
and Linvillt, This was felt to be an appropriate committee
and there was no suggestion to make any change here. In the


minutes of Meeting of Committee
on Machine Methods of Computation —2-
November 29, 1950

other three cases - Hamm, Verzuh and Dolanshy - it was felt
that we should talk the matter of specific appointments for
supervisory committees over with Professor Brown at the next
meeting.

It was suggested that the qualifying examination in
Mathematics be examined,in the same way that the Electrical
Engineering examination was discussed,at the next meeting of
this Committee. Consequently, the subject of the qualifying
examination for persons coming in to this field from the
Mathematics Department is to be the first subject of dis-
cussion at the meeting on December 6. It is hoped that Pro-

fessor Brown can come in to discuss the E. E. questions after
ten o'clock.

Another subject for future discussion is the question of
a Summer Symposium. Mr. Forrester reported that, in his
opinion, this coming Summer would be a little too early to
put on a full-fledged Summer schedule on machine computation.
0n the other hand, it was felt that there was a possibility
that a one~, two—, or three-day session or symposium on the
subject could be held. Since this does not require the
elaborate preparation which a full-fledged Summer Session re-
quires, it was decided that we should not reacu a decision at
this meeting but should bring it up from time to time in the
next several months. It was also decided that the question of
the courses on machine computation, wnich are given at present
at the Institute and the possibilities of other courses Which
should be given, would be taxen up in the near future, perhaps
at the December 13th meeting. Another subject of considerable
importance which would have to be taken up at that time or
later will be the listing of the various computing machines
at present operating and under construction at the Institute,
and a survey of their availability for training and general
research use. This sort of survey will be necessary before
general policy on this question can be discussedv

The next meetin of the Committee will be at 9130,
December 6, in Room -lO9.

i » .‘k k
Pﬁh.§mep\\

Chairman


