Reprinted from
“Proceedings of The New England Cardiovascular Society, 1 957 I8

FURTHER STUDIES ON THE EFFECT OF THE INTRACARDIAC BLOOD
ON THE ELECTROCARDIOGRAM

C. V. NELSON, Ph.D.* M. CHATTER]JEE, M.D,, and E. T. ANGELAKOS, Ph.D.

From the Cardiac Research Laboratory, Maine Medical Center, Portland, Maine, and the Physiology Dept.,
Boston University Medical School, Boston, Mass.

In the theory of the electrocardiogram, the heart is
assumed to act like a current generator immersed in
a homogeneous conductive medium. The concept of a
homogeneous medium has been subject to criticism.
Many studies have been made, for example, of the pos-
sible effect of the lungs. Although published figures for
the electrical resistivity of the lungs vary widely, model
studies have shown that even if the lungs had a resis-
tivity four times that of the other tissues, the maximum
error in any surface potential would not be more than
20%. Another factor which might invalidate the homo-
geneous medium idea is the presence of the blood in the
heart chambers. The electrical resistivity of whole blood
is much lower than that of muscle and other thorax
tissues. According to Schwan and Kay,! the ratio is
only 1/10. This ratio is considerably lower than that
reported by other workers ; usual values are one to four
or five. The effect of a highly conducting mass near a
current dipole can be studied most simply by means of
the method of electrical images.? Brody® showed that
the effect of a spherical cavity filled with blood would
be to increase the field potentials if the dipole axis is
normal to the sphere (radial dipole), or to decrease the
potentials if the dipole is tangential to the sphere.

Previously reported experiments* with an artificial
dipole within the ventricular cavity indicated that the
effect of the “shunting’ action of intracardiac blood was
to reduce the electrocardiographic potentials by about
25%. In the experiments reported here, we have placed
the dipole inside or across the myocardium in an effort
to reproduce physiologic conditions more closely. Two
approaches have been made: (a) Electrodes were in-
serted in the myocardium of exposed live dog hearts in
situ, and subthreshold stimuli were applied. The stimu-
lus signal was recorded during systole and diastole, in
order to see if the changing blood volume caused a varia-
tion in amplitude. (The difference was only about 10%.
This small difference was possibly due to the relatively
large residual blood volume.) (b) The hearts were
removed, and after the inflow and outflow vessels were
cannulated, they were placed in a tank modeled after
the human thorax. The tank was filled with saline of

*Established Investigator of the American Heart Association.
This project wpportul by grants from the Maine and Massa-
c,husctts Heart Associations and by Grant No. H-2590 of the
USPH

resistivity 1000 ohm-cm. Saline of the same resistivity
was perfused through the heart, followed by a solution
having the resistivity of whole blood. The deflections
produced by the artificial dipole in the two cases were
compared. In addition, the effect on the dipole of a
metal sphere in the tank was tested.

Figure 1 shows the results of an experiment in which
two platinum disk electrodes were sutured on the epi-
cardium of the right ventricle of a heart immersed in

FIGcure 1

Dos#IZ
RIGHT VENTRICLE SurFace ELECTRODES
(TancewTiaL Dirowr) +
L =970 ——
, s If‘ L

oz 0°, B:-150"

WHo 20 +30
\ Distamce -CM

 

the tank. The curves show the distribution of potential
around the wall of the tank at mid-ventricular level, as
measured by a series of disks permanently mounted in
the tank wall. ==45.7 cm corresponds to the center of
the back, and zero cm corresponds to the center of the
front wall (mid-sternal line). The effect of the low-
resistivity fluid is to reduce the amplitude of the poten-
tials all around the wall. The tabular insert shows that
unipolar and bipolar limb leads are also reduced. Be-
cause of this more or less uniform reduction, the angle
a 1s virtually unchanged. (a, defined as the angle
between the spatial vector and the horizontal plane, is
used in preference to @ the Einthoven angle, since
all components of the vector are thereby taken into
account.”)

Figure 2 is for a similar experiment with a trans-
mural dipole in the left ventricle, where the estimated
angle of the dipole with the myocardial wall was 70°.
The effect of the low-resistivity fluid is now to increase