supervisory and faculty staff, the other colleges have also con-
tributed faculty time. Machine time is free, though the user must
prepare his own coded program. To date faculty and students from

27 colleges and universities have used the facilities and 150 problems
are being or have besen run, representing several dozen different
scientific, engineering and academic fields., Details of the program are
are given in the appended Progress Report.

Here is a combination ideally suited for the prosecution of
research directed toward reducing the'"mismatch" between the machine
and the occasional user., All that is needed to start a vigorous
program are additional funds to augment the staff, which are at present
toc busy helping individual users to have time to work out the improved
techniques suggested by their present work. No money is needed for
machine rental or maintenance; this is already supplied by IBM. Nor
is money needed for machine operators or card-punch operators. The
additional funds can be used entirely in suppérting the additional
staff needed to intensify the research on machine behavior and to work
out the improved techniques for machine use arising therefrom, and in
purchasing or constructing the special input-output equipment which
will increase the machineis flexibility.

This special support need not be continued indefinitely. An
intensive program for three to five years should solve many of the
outztanding problems and enable the Center to drop back to its present
level of expenditure, but with a greatly enhanced utility to the
academic fraternity in New England because of the results of the
program. The results of the work will be lmmediately available to
the several hundred other 704 installations and, with little additional
modification, to the users of other makes of digital computers. _
Present makes of digital computers have many more properties in common
then differences, and what is learned on one machine can be carried
over to the others without much modification. |

Development of Utility Programs - In addition To assisting
individual users in putting their problem on the wmachine, the Cenfter
staff have the important task of making the machine easier to use by
all users. It always takes time, the experience of many users, to
reveal all the capabilities of any piece of machinery; this 1s
particularly true of high-speed computers. DBecause of their speed
and complexity it may take a dozen years or more before even tThe full
capabilities of our present machines are known, and by that time
machines of still more speed and complexity will be buillt. A computer
of the size of the TO4 has an order of complexity such that its -
designers literally are not awars of all of its capabilities. Con-
sequently it is important that research into These capabilities be
carried ong such research, revealing easier ways of obtalning resulis
and new methods of operation, may at times go farther in increasing
machine serviceability for the general user than can the providing of
a new machine with increased speed or capacltiy.