P

PHASE 1, Observation and Fact Finding., There is no single assessaent
available of t is going on at presemnt at the Institute with respect
to computation, There are many signs that the usage of computation is
growing both in magnitude, direction, and additional equipment, but there
is no clear indication of "Where it is heading” or of its effectiveaess
in research and education, or how its effectiveness could be improved,
The first phase of this study will therefore attempt to answer the
following guestions by observation and discussion with the major users

of computation at MIT,

1, What classes of problems are preseatly being solved by
some form of mechanized computation at the Institute?

2., How do these problems differ with respect to their com-
putation requirements, specialized equipment, and computer capacity?

3., What type of equipment is meeting the need at preseant,
i.e,, 704, TX-0, 650, analogue, etc,?

4., Vhat are the costs in terms of programming time and com-
puter time to solve this class of probiem?

5, How effective is the computer as a tool im this area?
Can it be made more 80 by a change in programming systems, techniques,
equipment, administration, or in the role of user and machine?

6. In what direction (computation-wise) is the problem areas
headeod?

This phase will not be confined to MIT, but should imclude
a similar study at MIT's defense laboratories, and nearby institutions
such as A,D, Little, Rarvard, Aveco, ete,

Phase 2, Evaluation, In terms of the fact finding, a study should

next be undertaken in depth to determine the "'state of the art” from
an eguipment and systems viewpoint, The study should attempt to answer
the following sets of gquestions:

1, What types of systems are available, and can they meet
these needs?

2. Yhat is the "state of the art” with respect to such
possibilities as remote conscles, time-sharing, multiprogramming, large
associative memories, handwritten input in user language, and programming
systems .,

3., Are the needs of the users consistent with what is
available, or what can be developed, initerms of user-oriented programming
systems, input-output devices, and machines?

4, VWhat areas are promising for further research?