Minutes of the Sixth Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computatio
January 3, 1951 g

Members Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, Z4. Kopal, C. Lin,
and E. Reissner

The Committee, in the first part of its meeting, continued
the discussion of courses presently aveailable at the Institute on
numerical analysis and posslible additions to such. In the Mathe-
matics Department there are two such courses: (1) M54, which
deels with such topics as numerical and graphical methods and
elementary numerical enslysisy (2) a course in integral equations,
M631, which contains some applications of nuuwerical analysis to
that subject. There 1s a course in the kiecnanical Engineering
Departuent, 2.215T. It 1s expected that this would be an advanced
course involving the application of numerical teconigues to the
vibrations of discrete and continuous systems. Forrester's group
intends to offer & course in the Electrical Engineering Department
under the heading of "Speclial Problems in klectrical Engineering®
(6.68). This would essentially be & continuution of the course
Welchman gives. It would be priwarily & laboratory course, which
will emphasize the use of the Wniriwind and willi have the intent
of familiarizing the students withh its operatiocnal procedures.

- The Commlttee then turned to & discussion of wnether the
courses on numerical analysis given &t thone Institute are suffi-
ciently couwplete. Xopal empnasized the point that the cleavage
of mathematical anslysis &and the machine use of same should not
be maintainedy particularly, the problem of how to aritumetize &
problem for a given machine should be treated somewhere. The
Committee tnen outlined a course for Nuwerical Anslysis for the
equations of mathemztical physics. This can be conveniently
broken up into two parts: (1) Background material which shoeuld
include the classification of partizl differenticl equations and
boundary conditions, the proper coordinate systems for each type
of equation &and the ways in winich the problem can be formulateds
viz., as an integral or as & variational problem. (2) Methods
which should include perturbation methods, variuation methods,
lterations and arithmetization. The discussion of these should
be oriented toward (1) the eventual solutions of the problems by
numerical methods, (2) their range of applicability. It should be
empnasized that ail of these methods are inter-related and can bs
used together on & given problem. In the problem of numerical
anelysis one 1s interested in combining the process of &aritimetlza-
tion with other members of this group. JIn concludlng the dis-
cussion on this course, it was emwpnasized that the guestion of