AM

‘ , The Rockefellervcundation‘
#9 West tgth Street -

' Computation’ceater is mere-tech As you know, the potential or such -

-a problem or immediate interest in the local political situation bu~t

 

-;lorember,29. 1955

Dr. Herman St ﬁaphanan, Director'
The-Social Sciences ‘

New yore zo’f-vuew York
Deernr, :Bu‘chamn,‘

As you suggested in our talker novuber 9,155“ been "keeping
an ear.open tor examples of the social science problems in which_our

problems is largely unknown so that most examples must be of pest
computer applications. One example though or research activity which
offers the promise o: good team-work between a Computation Center
staff member and social scientist is the following.

‘ Professors Theodore Beer and Ithiel Pool or the M.I;3. center
for International Studies have approached us on the feasibility of
"Computing Optimal Electoral Redistricting in Massachusetts“. This s

 

is also a type or problem or long-range national significance. Pro-
fessors Beer and Pool have thought through the problem to the point or_
developing various criteria of goodness (e.g. closely or evenly
distributed political strength in each electoral district, homogeneity
of socio-economic factors, etc.). In my Judgement, their ideas are
now "ripe" for close liason with a computation specialist so that the
difficult task of quantifying their concepts and solving their problem
can begin. The method of solution will probably be by the techniques

of "linear programming“ which are very powerful on optimization prob-
lems of this kind.

I should say that the above problem was essentially brought to us,
a procedure which in general puts the burden of computer knowledge on
the social scientist. It is very likely that there are many problems
of similar interest waiting to be discovered by computation experts
consulting with social scientists. I need say no more since this was
the gist of Professor Morse's proposal.

In addition, I have talked with Professor Orcutt or the Economics
Department at Harvard. Professor Orcutt, who is also the Harvard
Representative of our Computation Center, waﬁigéngaeno h to survey

e H t t vs on or are
ESTn3°£a§¥ieﬂa°8€ 23m gogomigglrgggégéﬁéesThe activities divide roughly

into two classes, those involving standard mathematical manipulations
and those which utilize the computer for simulating or behavior studies
of economic systems. A brief list of these activities is:


Professor Leé'ntief (inward); inversion or- large. matrices» (mg. ,-
100 x 100 mstrioes end 'Lsrserh'input-output analysis. 9

lotion-‘1 Ins-ecu of Economic Rescues: ‘ separating sesscnsl'snd trons 3: >

' . movementsfrom. scone-islets and statistics so that more meanings . ,

‘ Minfomtion is'obtsined. _ .. 1 , ~
University of niobium elnborste multiple regression schemes".

Professor J’sy PcrresterllJJ'. School of Industrisl ﬁnes-lent): f
economic models of firm behavior and eeonomicaystems. . " ,7

Coulee Foundation (Yale): interested in using emplicsted'ncdels .of'
economic systems. '~Lilited sppliectiom have been node on a smell
competes-r (misc) but the machine speed is magnate. Their -
approach, is to tor-unto; this. problem by or large system or ,
Millage!!! sndthen use "Monte Carlo} techniques to find the
so u one. ‘ ~ ‘ , , > '

' . I ‘ 4: . ’ ‘ I' ‘ ' ' ‘

Professor Orc’utt (Harvard)?! idtenséed'inl the simulation 19 economic
systems, not as abstract models, but in such c‘tsUhion that
contemporary economic problems can be considered.

The goal of our Center is not to compete as metal scientists
with activities such as those listed but rs her to contribute from

the computational expert side towards the inclusion of modern computing
mschines in social science research.

Professor Orcutt has said that he will be glad to amplify any of
the above topics which I have attempted to summarize, (any distortions
are mine). Due to the press of time before your December 3 meeting,
his phone numbers are: (office) KIrklsnd 7-7600, extension 2550; (home)
IVsnhoe 16-2896.

If I can be of any further assistance, please do not hesitate to
contact me.

Sincerely,

Fernando J. Corbato
Research Associate
M.I.T. Computation Center

FJC: Jtn

copies to: Prof. P.M. Morse
Prof. 6.3. Orcutt


