-

Minutes of the Fourth lMeeting

January 7, 1954

Persons Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, F. Hildebrand,
J. A, Hrones, C. C. Lin, P, M. Morse,
W. W. Seifert, F. M. Verzuh

‘Morse reported on the reduction in funds which the
Office of Naval Research had indicated was necessary for the
academic year 1955-1956. The budget was to be reduced %o
approximately 100,000, which maintain that by that time, the
work of Adams' group in Whirlwind and the number of research
assistants appointed in this fleld would have to be reduced.
Morse indicated that there still would be room for between 8
- and 10 appointments a year, depending on whether we could save
any money from previous years., It was pointed out that this
represented the inevitable cutting of funds from the Navy, and
this made all the more imperative the study of the minimum
amount required to keep various machines going.

 

Morse also reported on action on a proposed conference
on the making of Tableas. A preliminary letter has been sent out,
asking suggestions as to conferees, and a letter has been sent to
Dr. Seeger of the Natlional Science Foundation. It was proposed
that the meeting be In the latter part of the spring. A question
was raised as to whether someone from England should be invited.
Horse also brought up the fact that a conference on training
personnel in computing procedures was being held in the near
future. Hildebrand ssid he was interested to attend and will
report on this later.

Feshbach reported on the Physics Department Computing
Group which uses hand computers. Its present rate involves a
yearly expenditure of g40,000, but this can be expanded or con-
tracted at need. The persommel involved are all highly trained,
and most of them can put problems on large machines as well as
perform calculations with hand machines.

Hrones discussed his attitude toward the need for
machines here at the Institute. He pointed out there was g real
question as to whether an educational institution even as large as
the Institute can afford to maintain & large computing facility
80lely for educational and free research purposes. He felt that,
if the budget for a given machine was reduced below the amount
necessary for supporting a minimum active group using the machine,
that there would be no incentive to continue keeping the machine
going. There was some discussion as to whether these ideas held
true for all types of machines or not.

IV was decided to hold another meeting of the Committee
at 2:00 p.m., ¥Friday, Janvavry 15, if Professor (Gordom Brown or
Professor C. S. Draper would be present to give further facts on

this cuestion. NN
@% M\ W