MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Harch 1, 1957

 

TO: Dr. FPF. L. Foster
Room 5-105
FROM: P. M. Morse and F. M. Verzuh

SUBJECT: Continuation of Contract NSori06001

 

In accordance with our conversations with the following ONR
representatives,

Dr. F. Joachim Weyl, Director of Math Sciences Division,
Washington, D. C,

Dr. Arthur Grad

Dr. Carl F. Mukenhaupt, Chief Scientist, ONR, Boston

we recommend that you apply to ONR for an extension of the existing
contract (Project 6345) without additional funds for the fiscal period
1957-58.

Because of the delay in the completion of the new

Earl T. Compton Laboratory, it will be impossible to install the

IBY Type 704 Electronic Data Processing Machine at M.I.T. on March 1

as we originally scheduled. As a result, it will be impossible for us

to release our uge of the Whirlwind Computer on June 30, 1957 as
originally scheduled. It is very important that we have adequate time

to install the 704 and make the necessary conversion of programs from

Whirlwind to the 704 language. This means that there will be some period

of time during which dual operation of both the 704 and Whirlwind Computers

ig in effect. It is diXficult to determine in advance the exact termina-

tion date of our uge of the Whirlwind facillty. However, as we discussed

at our meeting, we shall notify you of the termination date as soon as

this information becomes available.

Extending the present contract without additional funds for the
above-requested 12-month period will permit us to effect a smooth
transition from the Whirlwind machine to the 704; furthermore, it will
provide us with the necessary time to prepare the final summary report
foxy this contract.

Since we are not requesting any additional funds for this
extension, we have not prepared the usual estimated budget requirements.
This is, of course, in accordance with our diseugsicns al our meeting
on Thursday. Tebruary Zl. |

Also, in accord with these discussions, Wo are currently preparing
a proposal to be submitted to ONR for a specific rescarch program, vhich
would be sei up ag a sepawnte project within The new MIT Computation Center,
designed to meke more effective use of the Type 704 machine. This
proposal will include research items of a mathematical nature
as we discussed with Weyl. A separate request for (IR


a -

funds will be made at some later date at our mutual convenience. It ie
our intention to terminate the present ONR project effective June 30, 1808,
and any new programs with the MIT Computation Center will ba set up as a
goparate and completely new project,

On January 31, 1057 the unexpended balance in Project 6345 was
$67,330. If wo anmsume that the present average monthly expenditure of
$10,000 continues, there will be an unexpended balance of $27,000 in this
pocount on June 30, 1967. This is sufficient to allow us to complete the
above-mnentionad tesk orders during the succeeding figeal period--with the
much reduced complement of personnel,

F. M. Vexrsuh
Marcel 1, 19057


