Jnsion of NSF 029100

ENCLOSURE B

Excegpts from Original Promsal for Funds
(modified to bring it up to date) -

gigs and Address of Institutions

 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research:
Research on Digital Computer Operation and Utilization

Investigation into the patterns or operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studies of
numerical analysis and machine programing methods, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization or the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out or such specific applications of
machine techniques to problems in science. engineering, and .
administration as will clarify the basic macarch and suggest new
points of View. .

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to c emine whether further support is advisable.

Proased Research - Bacgground Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its 704 machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and HIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
laboratory. and MIT is contributing some or the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free or machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-classified and non~routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Dhchine Computation Committee.

 

In addition, the Center will be available? up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England:
Already 23 institutiens have indicated their interest in parti-
cipating and have appeintcd faculty members to be their Insti-
tutional Representativen These representatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of their
institution. IBM is providing some funds for stipends for
graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of this research,