lay 13, 1959

Professor Nicholas letropolis
Enrico terni Institute
University at Chicago

5640 Ellis Avenue

Chicago 31, Illinois

Dear Professor letrepol is :

Last Inner when I was at Endimtt at the IBM Conterence
for Directors oi University Colputing Centers, I was asked to do
none thinking about organising turther seetings of Directors or
these Centers and. in tact, whether it would be appropriate tor
such Directors to organise themselves into a tonal or informal
society. I have hesitated tor sole tile as to what action is
appropriate, partly because 1 an mildly opposed to proliferating
additional societies or conventions and, partly because i have been
extrenoly busy this year. It was, however. suggested that a meeting
oi people interested in this general iield might be arranged either
betore or site:- the ACI seating here this tall. A recent talk with
the local Program Committee for this meeting. however, discouraged
this action and I am somewhat at a loss as to where to go next.
Consequently, i am writing for your advice.

It is pertectly true that the Directors of university
computing centers have problems which are not touched on in the
present AC! meetings or in other computer meetings. They are, of
course, more in the nature of administrative problems, although
these certainly can be real. whether they could be helped by
having occasional meetings at which these problems can be discussed
or whether they can be taken care of adequately by informal discus—
sion at meetings such as the ACE, I am not sure. It is possible, if
only occasional meetings would be useful, that the National Science
Foundation would be willing to be of financial help. What is needed,
however, is some indication from you who are directing university
computing centers as to the need for such a meeting and the possible
agenda, 1! it is needed. There is to be an Eastern Computer Conference
in Cambridge later in the year. This meeting could be scheduled
near it, if such action seemed appropriate. 0n the other hand, there
may be advantages in meetings separate from such large convocations
at some quiet spot where we could talk things over at leisure. Or,
of course, we should not meet at all.