In the long run, the variousz social scientists in New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them. But it takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers in
any fleld are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic details of 1its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed 1ln our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using computers
in social sclence now, we will have to use a team: a man who Knows
the field plus 2 wan who knows the machilne.

Need for a Research Staff in Machine Utilization, an
Iggredient in the Team ‘

This last ingredient is the part which 1s left out of
the contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-
+ime staff of enthusiastic machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do its tricks and to Joln with |
research workers who come with a "gleam in their eye", forming
teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's capablllities
in research. This staff will be hard, but not impossible, to
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chiefly toward research in the physical sciences, and wve
have obtained an NSF grant of S35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the partici-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun to make
contact with those students who are interested in machine utillza-
tion. There are sbout two dozen IBM research assistants appointed
for this year. We should be able to pick from the best of these a
few who would 1like to stay on for two or three years more, after
they have obtained their advanced degrees in engineering, mathe-
matics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potentlal
members of research teams.

Budget for the Social Sclences

To make up a staff which could handle the soclal sclence
problems as well as the phiysical sclience ones would need another
four or Five good men, research men plugs the technicilanz To back
them up, plus a small budget for travel and incidental supplies
and equipment, approximately g35,000 a year for three years. It
would take about three years to get roliing and the developments
should be reviewed at the end of three years, to see where to go
next. Such a stafi sho be more important during the beglinning
stages of the utillzatio

~—~

21T 1
JRA |

n of electronic computers, when the prob-
lems are not too clearly formulated and when neither partner in
the team knows the other‘s plans and ideas. Later, when some of
the more important potentialities have been demonstrated, the
research can be split up into projects, each with a definite goal
and with its own budget, which can include partial support for the
continuing staff of the Center. So, eventually, the Center could