Westinghouse

ELECTRIC CORPORATION

GA

WES
{63
Ly

3 GATEWAY CENTER
P.O. BOX 2278
PITTSBURGH 30, PA.

+ Professor Phillip M. Morse
Director, Computation Center
Room 26-142 October 3, 1960
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

Feeling that a knowledge and appreciation of computers and
their capabilities and limitations is becoming more and more vital
to its higher management, the Westinghouse Electric Corporation is
embarking on what it believes is a pioneering effort in the field of
management education. We are organizing and planning a six-day course
in computer concepts for our top management personnel, including company
officers and division and product department general managers. This
course is fully supported by our Management Development Committee, who
have charged the Business Systems Department with the responsibility
of organizing and planning the details of the course.

Although it might be possible to use some of our in-Company
facilities and machine manufacturers' lecturers for the purpose, it
is our feeling that our objectives can best be accomplished by conducting
the course at a location separate from any normal company operations and
divorced from any possibility of bias toward specific machines on the
part of the lecturers.

We have had some exploratory conversations with M.I.T. relative
to the possibllity of having members of the M.I.T. faculty serve as
lecturers, and this appears to be feasible. The major remaining question
is whether, on some basis, time could be made available on the 7090 machine
at your computation center for the "laboratory" sessions supplementing the
lectures.

We anticipate that the course will be given initially to some
12 to 15 members of our management during a one-week period some time
late in March or early in April of 1961. We would require one and a
half to two hours on the machine from Monday through Friday of the week,
preferably early in the second shift, or alternatively late in the first —
shift.

We would appreciate very much knowing whether such time could
be scheduled, and on what financial basis.

YOU CAN BE SURE... IF ws Westinghouse


Professor Phillip M. Morse
October 3, 1960
Page Two

I hope you will be interested in assisting us in this effort,
end I look forward to your early reply.

Very truly yours,

-
~~ bo” ~~

  
   

  
 

R. C. Cheek, Director
Business Systems Application


