Memo Page 2.

 

unless many users can use the machine at virtually the same
time, i. e. the machine is time shared.

What we are studying then is a system comprised of a
large capacity computer with specialized remote input-output
devices plus additional hardware and an overall programming
system. The function of this programming system would be,
in effect, to divide up the large machine into what would ap-
pear to each of many remote users as his own machine, with
almost the complete capability of the larger machine, but
running at a slower speed. The problems of equitably shar-
ing the total machine time, prorated among the various users,
accounting for their usage, and shifting from program to pro—
gram would be decided by the overall programming system.

There are three classes of problems that are being ac—
tively worked on by the Time—Sharing project. The first of
these is hardware, the second is the overall requirements of
the system, and the third is actually programming the system
for a particular machine.

The "Hardware” requirements mainly pertain to the gener—
al problem of communication between the user and the machine.
A person generally expresses his ideas by voice, or by draw—
ing or handwriting. He can also express himself (althoughf
not as readily) by using the keyboard of a typewriter. In
any event, the basic information rate necessary for a person
to communicate with the machine is low. As part of this pro»
ject, input devices, that will allow the usage of handwritten
or sketched inputs are being actively studied. Typewriter
inputs, of course, are quite feasible as of today, and al—
ready have been tested on the 704 as will be described. Com~
munication, on the other hand, between machine and the human
is a more difficult and challenging problem. Information
can be presented to the user in the form of a printed or
typed page, a display on a device that is capable of plot—
ting, such as a scope, or perhaps, eventually, through

sound. Display devices such as a typewriter suffer from