g

1) Evaluation of ballistic tables,
2) Guided missile stability and performance studies,
3) Lead computing sight calibration studies,
4) Studies of aircraft propeller performance equations,
5) Study of the design characteristics of submarines, torpedos,
and other underwater craft,
6) Study of the design of catamarans employing the hydrofoil principle.
7) Study of the operations research problem dealing with submarine warfare.
8) Study, design and psrformance of antiaircraft missiles such as Nike, etc.

As a matteraf fact, the contributions mads by thQAAnsly:or were considered
to be sufficiently importsnt that the Navy Department issued the Naval Ordnance
Development Award in recognition of the vork portor-od by the Diffor.ntial Analyzers
and associated computing staff.

In addition to such studies, the Analyzer was used to design new types of
lead ccmputing sights, tracking systems, aircraft compoment désign, etc. This type
of activity was carried on by the Instrumentation Labonatory during the years
1950-1954.

It is evident from the above partial list of problems that the Analyzer was
primarily used for the solution of military problems. However, there were a
number of industrial problems solved on this machine. For example:

1) Study of the performance of a supercharge,

2) Study of circuit eolution of electrical networks,

3) Analysis of the dynasmic performance of servomechanisms,
_4) Studies associated with heat flow problems,

5) Study of a problem in enzyme kinetics, h

6) Studies of the atmospheric oscillation of the upper atmosphere,
7) Studies of a boundary value problem associated with the dooign of

an ultra centrifuge,

In addition to the above industrial problems, the machine was used to &
limited extent for the solution of academic problems arising im M.I.T. thesis
research. For example,

1) Investigation of aircraft performance and comtrol,

32) Investigation of the performance of magnetic relay circuits,

3) Investigation of the stability of gyroscopes,

4) Investigation of the orbit of dynamically-loaded journal bearings,

5) Investigation of statistically-loaded machine bearings,

6) Study of magnetic emplifiers,

7) Investigation of the rolling characteristics of ship models,

8) Study of M.I.T. servomechanisms,

9) Study of differentiation with elements of the Differential Analyser,
10) Investigation of Schrodinger's Wave Bquation,
11) Bonneville power load sllocation study.

It is evident from the above 1list of problems solved on the Differential
Analyzer that it was used predominantly for military and D, I. C. sponsored