CCI - CYL E48 = TR

MIT COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

PROBLEM APPLICATION PROCEDURE

The information requested in the attached form (CCF-2) is of primary
importance to the Computation Center for several reasons -- primarily because
it helps us serve you better. The IBM Corporation and other groups supporting
our staff wish to hear what types of problems the Center is helping to solve.
It strengthens our funding requests to indicate the number of government or
other sponsored projects which are being assisted by the Center.

It enables the Computation Center staff to make an approximate
forecast of the load on the computer. This helps to prevent making commitments
for computer time that cannot be met and helps to insure that computer time
on any current problem will be available on reasonably short notice. In order
to accomplish these aims, it is necessary to estimate both the amount of time
required by a problem and its rate of usage. The answers to questions 10 and
11 help the staff to make these estimates.

However, many users or prospective users of the computer may not be
able to estimate these times, and in other cases the estimates may be in error
by as much as a factor of ten. Section C of Item 14 should enable the Center
staff to check or make the required estimates.

Since our estimates of computer load will be at best approximate,
problems using a small amount of time, on the order of a half hour to an hour,
may omit parts B and C of Item 14. However, if the time is extended appreciably
beyond these limits a more complete description may be subsequently required.

Another purpose of the information required is to help avoid dupli-
cation of coding effort and to aid communication in the community of 704 users
and to reduce the amount of descriptive material required in subsequent reports.
The problem description required in Item 14 will be used by us in various
reports emanating from the Center. In subsequent requests for additional
computer time, you need not rewrite Item 14 unless you wish to change it.

In addition, programmers making requests for problems using routines
developed under other problem numbers may refer to the appropriate problem
descriptions for details concerning the routines used. Answers to questions
12 and 13 will help us classify your problem in our Semi-Annual report so other
machine users can see if your results may be of use to them.

The Center will make every reasonable effort to enable initiated
problems to be completed within the limits of its policy, as an educational
and research organization. This policy excludes a large amount of time for
production runs. Time will be allocated on a quarterly basis. At the end of
each quarter you will be asked to fill out a short progress report form which
will include a question as to whether you require additional computer time
during the next quarter.

F. M. Verzuh
CCF-2a Assistant Director

020658


