\\\

 

 

II.

III.

IV.

VI.

VII .

 

Proble- No. 2 - Design of Punched Card System to Handle

Business Data Processing Work at the Eastern Joint Computer
Conference

This problem teaches the inportnnce of overall flow
charts , the design of suitable ma card layout toms ,‘ the
preparation of accurate instructions for machine operating .
personnel, end the estimation of the personnel and machine tine
required to handle 'the registration for 2,000 attendees at the

conference .

Problem No. 3 - The solution a: a First Order Differential
Equation on the Type 650 magnetic Drum Calculator

The student is} given a block diner-on or a 650 program --
used to solves}: ordinnry "differential equation using tour-thu-
order Runae-Kutta touuiae. As part of the assignment, the -
student prepares the actual coding of the 650 pm using
basic language, prepares '5 test solution for this program,
computes a few check points, debugs his progran on the 650,
and finally carries out the solution 01’ this problem on the
machine. After completing this particular experiment, the
student has a. very intiute knowledge 01' the 650 machine.

Solution of an Ordinary Differential Equation on the 650

The student solves the identical problem stated in the
preceding section using the Card Programmed Calculator. This
teaches them the diﬂerence between the internally-stored program
features of the 550 and the card-progressed characteristics of
the Card Programmed Calculator.

Evaluation of the Roots of a 98 degree Polynomial

A 650 program using the N0?! systen was. prepared which
evaluates the roots of the polynomial using Hitchcock's method.

Computation of the Actuarial Life Insurance Tables

Since a high degree 01 accuracy in this computation was
needed , the basic 650 language was modified to per-tom 20~digit
arithmetic in the solution of this problem.

Inversion of matrices using Modified Elimination Procedure

A basic 650 program was prepared which automatically
includes a pivotal-condensation" technique. This program
correctly handles matrices which have zero elements on the
main diagonal.