| T o= L N e et T e BRI R TN BYwuil M. 9
----------- L E . ¥ = S -

eilen

o Drs ResSe Mallliken -

. Department of Physies L
. The University of Chicago

- Chiecago 37, Illinecis .

- Dear Bobi -

it I believe I told you when I last saw you of our plans
to retire Whirlwind. If you are not aware of them, They may ~
change your plans somewhat. We are getting a new computer, an
IBM 704, some time this spring. It will be supported by IBM ‘

- instead of by the Navy and therefore arrangements to have prob-v‘

lems run on the machine will be different and will have to be.
renegotiated. In fact, it is not certain that we are to be

allowed to do problems for any group outside of M.I.T. and the
-~ New England college family for whiech the machine is installed.

At the end of June 1957, therefore, we are relinguishing all

 

~ part in Whirlwind operation and will turn i1t back to the Navy
- for whatever use they may decide. Conseguently, all work which
is to be done on Whirlwind must be finished by the end of June,
1957. Any work in the future would have toc be done on the 704
and would be subjeect to different rules, probably more stringent
with regard to outside participation. |

, Part of our diffieculty is that the Navy has finally
got tired of supporting Whirlwind; not that I blame them, for
it has been an expensive operation. Even for this spring they
are insisting that we get financlal contribution from users.
The agreed-on rate is $250.00 per hour. In the case of Mr.
Merryman, therefore, we cen allow him the additional ten hours
you mention free, but any further use of Whirlwind would have
to be paid for at the regular rate. You mention that you had
about $8,000. This would pay for 32 additional hours on the
machine. Judging from your present rate of use, 1 doubt
whether you would use as much as 32 hours before the middle of
June. I hope, however, that you will get enought done so that
your work on reprogramming will not have been in vain.

Please let me know your thoughis on the changed
gsituation I have outlined above.

Yours,

Philip M. Morse
PMM : lwh
ces Dr. Verzuh
Prof. Slater