Extension of NSF G2940 Page 7

Enclosure B, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
e.g.§ several single-accumulator computers with common memory,and
the behavior of a computer with multiple accumulators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a 704 by utilization of
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certaln functionals, and thence conver-
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration. | |

 
    

 

Eaciﬂitiése

    
 
 
  
  

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 704 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units cont
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 2
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, 2
betic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3 off-line
magnetic-tape-controlled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled carc
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respecti ely.
In addition to the TO4 there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, gollators, sorters, reproducers
interpreters, and the Type 40 Accounting Machine. The aggregat
machlne rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated
by IBM.

The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scalé
commercial computers avallable today. Sincé& the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel - Supervisorx and Administrative Personnel Associated

with the Project:

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretiecal physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Bush differential analyzer was avallable at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanies" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936f "Methods of Operations Research”" (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 1957,
and about a hundred journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further biographic details
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project.

 — —— —— . 1 et g

————— . —— - o ks