|
[
|

 

 

a

NIT COMPUTATION CENTER
he Magsachusetig Institute of Technology
: Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

JUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORT

From: Dr. ¥F. 8, Verzuh Date: March 28, 1958

Subject: Quarterly Progress Report for the Period vanuary 1 - Merch 31, 1958
HERBERT Pe GALLIHER

Appilcant: 10-330
MeleTe
M139 WAITING LINE COMPUTATIONS

TIME ALLOTED 0900 HRS TIME USED 11612 HRS AS OF MARCH 14.

1, Name of programmer submitting report:

 

 

 

Institution: Dept.
Address :
I I AA FE YA EE Of ERAT NS at
Phone No.

 

 

2. Have you completed your problem?
© If the answer is YES, how will you employ your results? If results are to
be published, please indicate: Author, Title, Journal and expected date of
publication. (Acknowledgement of the help of the Center is requested, as
well as two copies of the reprint for use at the Center.) If results are
used in a Thesis, please list the Title, degree sought, Department and
Granting Institution,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if final arrangements for publication of results have not been made, indicate
your present intentions above and report to us again later when final
arrangements have veen made,

3, If your answer to 2 is NO, this Report Form will also be your Request Form
for computsr time for the next quarter and you should answer the following
questions:

8) How much computer time will be needed to complete this problem?

b) What is the expected completion date?

¢) How much moire machine time will you require for the next quarter for
thir problem? minutes? :

4) Why?

 

 

 

 

 

 

ta et + LASSE CERIN EASE CT IIER aT STD AST NO LI SOUS ITNT Dd CARING ed i

 

CCF-8.3

I  ———

pe ee pt, i - - a


Page 2 of 3

Note that this time is allocated separately each quarter; no further
machine time will be allocated for this problem unless this question-
naire is answered and returned. Whether you have finished or not,
the following information concerning your use of the Center would be
helpful for us.

List SHARE subroutines used:

 

 

 

a) Are subroutines working correctly?

 

b) List errors, limitations or changes in subroutines:

 

¢) What modifications have you made?
d) Vhy were these modifications made?

 

List subroutines which you have written that may be of interest to others:

 

Coding language and operating programs used:
SHARE FORTRAN
Other:

 

 

Programming statistics: Please report, as accurately as you can, the total
personnel hours sxpended during the past guarter in:

a) Math, Formulation @) Assembly & Mach, Testing
b) Numerical Analysis £) Checking Results
¢) Programming g) Production Running
d) Coding h) Problem Write up

 

 

 

 

 

 

Is there any other way in which we can be of help to you?

 

 

 

The abstract and description of your problem, and the suggested classification,
which you provided for us on Application Form CCF-2, are used in our Progress
Reports to describe your work, If these items have changed during the past
quarter, they should be brought up te date so that we have a corract version
of your present use of the Center. Consequently, £ill in the following with
NO CHANGE or with a revised version:

2) For cataloging purposes, how would you index this problem? For
example, mathematics, logic, gama, etc, If this is a mathematical
problem, specify type(s) such as, integration, partial differential
eguations, matrix theory, etc.

 

 

 

¢

-

kb) If this is a mathematical problem, specify numerical methods used,
such as, Gauss’ quadrature method, difference equations, Crout, etc.

 

ASE IARI Re —

 

 

 

CCPF-8 ° a


¢c) On one or two
as follows:

Section A:
Section B:

Section C:

CCF-8 ° 3

Supervisor's Signature

Page 3 of 3

additional sheets write sections A, B, C, D, E and F

A one-paragraph abstract of Section B and C.

Complete description of problem background which
should give a complete picture to someone well
acquainted with the relevant field of research.
Give references to earlier or related work and
indicate relation to this work.

Description of numerical and computer techniques

used, and justification of their adequacy or indication
of how adequacy was determined, This description
should include, when pertinent, the number of signifi-
cant figures accuracy required at various stages of the
calculation and the ranges and values of the quantities
involved in sufficient detail so that program complexity
may be ascertained. In addition, indicate how you
tested the programs and whether you have test cases
available.

Signature:
Ingtitution:

Date:


