Reprinted from Prysics Topnay, Vol. 9, No. 10, 19-23, October, 1956

Printed in U. S. A.

on the use of

DIGITAL
COMPUTERS

By Philip M. Morse

An invited address before the American Physical So-
ciety at the 25th Anniversary Meeting of the Ameri-
can Institute of Physics in New York, Feb. 1, 1956

ET me say, right off, that I don’t intend to give

you a sales talk on how electronic computers will
do all the observing for the experimental physicist and
all the thinking for the theoretical physicist. That doesn’t
mean I think computers won’t be of any use to us, how-
ever. They are tools, like cyclotrons and spectroscopes,
which can help us carry on research but, as with any
other tool, it’s going to take a great deal of thought and
ingenuity to realize their full potentialities. As with any
of our other instruments, only those of us who take the
time and trouble to learn thoroughly the computer’s op-
erations and its limitations will be able to exploit fully
its potentialities.

Nor am I going to spend my time describing the
gadgetry which is used to implement its various func-
tions. Many of you could do that job better than I
could and, besides, it is the operating pattern of the
computer which is important for the user to under-
stand, not so much the details of its realization in any
particular computer.

The modern digital computer performs a number of
familiar functions in an unfamiliar manner. It has an
input, where the procedural instructions and values of
the initial constants for a specific problem are translated
into the specialized language understood by the machine.
It has a storage unit or units, where the translated in-
put, the results of intermediate steps, and, finally, the
answer or answers are recorded, ready for later use. It
has an arithmetic unit, which processes the numbers ac-
cording to instructions. It has an optput, so that the re-
sults of the prescheduled operations may be retranslated
into more usual form and displayed in an appropriate
and understandable manner. And, of course, it has a
control unit, which coordinates and synchronizes all
these activities.

None of these functions are essentially new to us. A
desk computer is an arithmetic unit. The intermediate
storage in most computing problems is a set of num-

OCTOBER 1956

 

 

Philip M. Morse is professor of
physics at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology.

bers on a piece of paper and the usual output is a table
of numbers, a graph, or some other pictorial representa-
tion. Those of us who have had an assistant carry out
a computation have also written out instructions simi-
lar in purpose to the coded programs for a machine.
The major difference, aside from the much more im-
pressive appearance of the new implementation, is the
increase in speed and reliability. Present day digital
computers can perform individual operations, such as
adding or multiplying two eight-decimal-digit numbers
or withdrawing such a number from or inserting it into
a storage register, in a time of the order of magnitude
of ten microseconds. And the magnetic core storage in
Whirlwind I, the computer we have at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, for example, cannot now be
blamed for more than one error in about 10'° demands
on its memory!

Although there is no essential change in function,
these very large improvements in speed and reliability
make possible the solution of problems and the use
of numerical methods which would be impractical by
earlier means. A computation technique which involves
a hundred or a thousand or even ten thousand trial
calculations to find the answer can.-now be employed in
a routine manner. :

An important limitation on the reliability of compli-
cated calculations is the number of times the storage
unit is used. Calculations usually proceced in a sequence
of steps; at the beginning of each step numbers are
read from storage, at its end the results are put in stor-
age. With hand computation, where the storage is num-
bers copied by hand onto a sheet of paper, the errors
of transcription or of reading are about one in a hun-
dred for the amateur, maybe as low as one in 10* for
a professional. Consequently, if a computation involves
a hundred or more steps, the reliability of a hand com-
putation by a nonprofessional is not very high and, if
the time required is so great as to preclude a number