ﬁlﬁh'n'h our IBM 704 is now delivered and is in storage at
delay c-mei@mafmmc.lm to house it has delayed
Wﬂmm&e@t fir by NSF grant NSF G2940. As
a result, it is estimatec t&u& only about SE,GﬁQ will have been
mwm 33, 1957. Staff members, which were to have been
sf' is project, have been continued on the Whirlwind
vject um&il the change-over, and most of them will not be trans-
rrec until summer. It is therefore proposed that the project be
-inued until June 30, 1958, with an additional grant of only
3,0@@, so that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to
1958, we can operate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecas¢. Estimated details of budget
are appended, together with excerpts from the original proposal.

   

 

 

 

 

ss to Date

  
 

Although the NSF funds have not been used to any extent, work
on the first aspects of thepproposed research has gone forward
rapidly as is possible without the 704 being in. running condi-
tion. A complete utility and a post-mortem program have been

 
   
 

oped, and tested out on borrowed 7O4 time, a much more
1lble assembly program than at present available has been
un, ready for active coding when our 704 is in operation.
ussions have been begun with a view to investigating the
incorporation of a flexible output equipment utilizing the
photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Many programs
of importance in physics and engineering have been, or are being
translated from Whirlwind language to 7O4 language, such as the
work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. C. Slater
and the large-shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossi. The
meteorology group under Prof. Charney, recently moved here from
Princeton where their work was initiated by Von Neumann, is
planning to use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
require the advice and help of our staff to program their various
calculations. We will be assisting the Harvard Observatory staff
in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the IGY s8tellite "shoots". Dr. S. Ulam of Los Alamos, who has
been a Vislting Fellow to the Center this year, has been assisting
us develop "Monte Carlo" techniques. Prof. John MeCarthy of the
Dartmouth Mathematics Department (one of the New England colleges
participating in our program) will be here next year and will be
interested in developing machine logic and in further investiga-
tions of the behavior of "automata" by means of simulation pro-
grams. The staff of the MIT library 1s interested in exploring
the possibilities of storing and recovering 1nfernation by
machine methods and a project in the MIT Language Department on
machine translation, supported by the Woncr Pounm:uu,
expects to use our equipment to test out their ideas. Other
gr::pl, at the 23 participating colleges, are planning further .
work.

   
 

ﬂi

. . < yotaa e
s Coamset B e, ok