106 Journal of The American Ceramic Society— Francl and Kingery Vol. 37, No. 2

020 066

.zo'l.:m
_. 0.6 >~ 062 GRAPHITE
S =
- >
‘e -
E 012 O
By § 058
° o
7, 008 O
@ w 054
< >
S —
< 004 <
& 050

000

      

0 200 400 600
TEMPERATURE (°C)

800

Fig. 15. Thermal conductivity of solid nickel and samples with cylindrical
pores (0.146 cm. in diameter) as indicated.

40

cm)

30

cm.

20

k(cal. sec.” °c.”

00
0 200 400 600 800

TEMPERATURE (°Q)

Fig. 16. Thermal conductivity of solid graphite and samples with cy-
lindrical pores (0.146 cm. in diameter) as indicated.

RELATIVE CONDUCTIVITY K&

 

0

A e ' 4
CROSS-SECTIONAL PORE FRACTION

Fig. 17. Relative thermal conductivity against cross-sactional pore
fraction of nickel and graphite as calculated by Loeb's theory ond
as measured at 800°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data;
dashed lines, theoretical. Solid circles, graphite; open circles, nickel.

In addition, if the thermal conductivity of a sample with a
given porosity (and for higher temperatures, emissivity) is

     
   

——

  

0 200 500 800 1000
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 18. Relative conductivity of various materials having a cross-sectional
pore fraction equal to 0.50.

o
o

RELATIVE cououcrnvurv[%?-]
s

o

o

 

0 .2 4 6 8 0
EMISSIVITY

Fig. 19. Effect of emissivity on conductivity at 200°, 500°, and
800°C,

known, the true conductivity of the solid can be determined.
This is particularly valuable in correlating and comparing
the results of various investigators, and in determining the
conductivity of solids which are difficult to prepare in a dense
form. The authors will have occasion to employ this method
of calculation in a later communication (Part X).

It should be emphasized that the porosity is only one of the
major factors affecting the heat transfer. In heterogeneous
systems the thermal conductivity of a major component is
lowered not only by the presence of the air phase but also by
large or small amounts of the other solid components. In
applying these results for heterogeneous systems the actual
composition and microstructure (crystal phases, compounds,
solid solutions, glasses) must be specified. The values will
then be valid for this system without the air phase. In an
attempt to obtain a true value of thermal conductivity of a
major component from a heterogeneous system, the influence
of impurities must be taken into account. A later part of this
series will treat the influence of minor components on the
thermal conductivity of heterogeneous systems.

VI. Conclusions

(1) The Loeb equation for the effect of porosity on thermal
conductivity is confirmed experimentally for isometric and
oriented anisometric pores in materials of different thermal
conductivities and emissivities.

 

pebruary 1954 (Part 1)

@) The thermal conductiv.ity of bodies with random
orosity 1S decreased. proportionately to the voly
fraction (or cross-sectional pore fraction).

) The therma.] conductivity of bodies with oriented
aniSOmetriC pores is decreased proportionately to the cross.

me pore

- Thermal Conductivity, X

: 107
sectional pore fraction. Orientation has a pronounced effect
on the thermal conductivity.

(.4).P§t higher temperatures (above about 500°C.) the
emissivity and pore size become important in determining
the effect of porosity on thermal conductivity.

 

Thermal Conductivity: X Data for Several Pure Oxide
Materials Corrected to Zero Porosity

by W. D. KINGERY, J. FRANCL, R. L. COBLE, and T. VASILOS

The thermal conductivities of several oxide ce-
ramics have been measured. Data for fifteen
pure oxides of theoretical density have been cal-
culated. A table and plots of thermal conduc-
tivity from 100° to 1800°C. are included. The
conductivity of the polycrystalline oxide mate-
rials measured varies from a factor of more than
100:1 at room temperature to about 10:1 above
1000°C.

. Introduction

REVIOUSLY in this series several experimental methods
Phave been described for determining the thermal conduc-

tivity of ceramic samples over a wide temperature range,
and experimental data have been reported for a number of
oxide materials. In addition, a theoretical and expe:ri'mental
study of the effect of porosity on thermal conductivity has
been reported.

The purpose of the present communication 1s (1.) to repprt
thermal conductivity data for a number of additional oxide
materials and (2) to correct these and previously repor_ted
data to the values for polycrystalline samples of theoretical
density. The authors will not attempt to analyze these data
in terms of atomic or structural properties, but propose to do
this in a later communication.

Il. Experimental

() Measurement of Thermal Conductivity
All measurements of thermal conductivity W . bt
tquipment previously described in detail m .thls S.er,lez
MEaSurements for mullite, spinel, forsterite, titania, stabllfz.e :
er.Conia' alumina, magnesia, berylla, thoria, mrco.n.‘ /1;“1
oXide, and electrical porcelain were made by the ellipsorda
envelope method (see Parts I1 and IT1, this series). Measufe
ments for alumina, magnesia, beryllia, zirconia, lime, gr."‘_ph‘tle’
nickelous oxide, and uranium dioxide were m'ade \f\"l?.ft 110
“oMparative linear flow apparatus (see Part IV). '\IO(,‘ ;C‘
tons to measure graphite and UO, tn vactio were el.lll’lo)e(l' q
Bulk densities were obtained by a water-absorption m?‘: o d
and by o mcrcur\'-(lisplu(‘mrwllf method. Results Ohldllll)e :
by the two methods agreed within =#0.01 gm. et GG 01
ros‘t}' Wwas determined T‘mm bulk density and the theoreticd
ehsities as given in Table I.

vere made with

Thermal conductivity at zero porosity was calculated
employing the relationship

km
Es 7))
k, = solid thermal conductivity.
kn = measured thermalponducthty.
P, = volume pore fraction.

The derivation and applicability of this equation‘ have been
considered previously (see Parts VIII and IX of this series).

(2) Sample Fabrication

The fabrication and the properties of samples of Al.-zOs,
MgO, BeO, ThO,, and stabilize'd Zr0, have been. described
previously. Other oxide specimens were fabrlcate‘d b.y
methods similar to those used for MgO, Al,O3, and ZrO, 1n this

ry.
lali\(’)lrjltl(i)té was prepared from pure fused material (ngcock &
Wilcox Company) which was grognd.for.‘_hl hours in a steoe}
ball mill to give a particle-size distribution with 50 wt. %
finer than 5 microns. Iron was re_movefl by magnet}c
separation followed by repeate.d leaching wx.tl} hyflrochlorlc
acid. Viscosity of the suspension shov'ved minima in the pH
ranges 2 to 4 and 10 to 12. Flreq deqsﬂy pf slip-cast samples
varied in the same manner as slip viscosity. Then1}a1 Ic{on;
ductivity specimens were slip cast from‘ a slip having a pd ot
3.0 and a specific gravity of 2.1. Samples were hre _qa()
1780°C. Chemical analysis of the fired samples was 69.0
31.9 wt. Y S10e.

“',S(z)li;li)ie: \(\)ft .nﬁgnesium aluminate spincl. were’. pre{pa‘red‘.l:iy
Anderson by slip casting from a suspension with d :’gec} : 1(;
:rravitv of 2.2 and a pH of 3.0. Tlle spinel was prepare \; i .
> 1 ratio of MgO:AlO; (chemical analysis 71.9 AlOj;, 29.
atl .l(;augigO) v Thermal conductivity values are from
s e
And.erson S.- thegs.)ared from Superpax (National Lead C_‘mn-

Zxrcon.“af prféan particle size of 5 microns as received.
r’;‘a}:]yzir\:(‘)?\\itsnacid-treated with 1 N HCI and slip cast at a

ez

[ H. Anderson Se.D. thesis, Massachusetts Institute of
* [- ) P . g WFw=e

Technology 1952.