HMASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

 

March 1, 1957

TO: Dx, ?. L. Foster
Room S5-105 '
FRQOE: P, M. Morse and F. M. Verzuh

SUBJECT: Continuation of Contract N5ori06001

In accordance with our conversations with the tolloving ONR
representatives,

Dr. F. Jbachim.weyl, Director of Math Sciences Divisxon,
_ Washington, D. C.

Dr. Arthur Grad

Dr. Carl F. Mukenhaupt, Chief Scientist, ONR, Boston

we recommend that you apply to ONR for an extension of the existing
contract (Project 6345) without additional funds for the fiscal periocd
1957-58.,

Because of the delay in the completion of the new

Earl T. Compton Laboratory, it will be impossible to install the
IEM Type 704 Electronic Date Processing Machine at M.I.T. on March 1
as we originelly scheduled. As a result, it will be impossible for us

to release our use of the Whirlwind Computer on June 30, 1957 as
- originally scheduled. It is very important that we have sdequate time
To install the 704 and meke the necessary conversion of programs from
Whirlwind to the 704 language. This means that there will be some period
of time during which dual operation of both the 704 and Whirlwind Computers
is in effect. It is difficult to determine in advance the exact termina-
tion date of our use of the Whirlwind facility. However, as we discussed
at our meeting, we shall notify you of the termination date as soon as
this information becomes available.

) Extending the present contrsct without additional funds for the
above-requested l2-month period will permit us to effect a smooth
transition from the Whirlwind machine to the 704; furthermore, it will
provide us with the necessary time to prepare the final summary report
for this contract.

Since we are not requesting any additiconal funds for this
extiension, we have not prepared the usual estimated budget reguirements.
This is, of course, in accordance with our discussions at our meeting
on Thursday, February 21.

Aiso, in gecord with these discussions, we are currently preparing
o proposal to be submitted to ONR for o specific roscarch program, which
would be et up as 8 senpevete proldoct within the new MIT Computatioan Center,
designed to make moxe e2fective use of the Type 704 mechine. This.
p*bposal will include réseanrch items of a mathematical nature
a8 we discussed with Veyl. A separate request for (IR