A Proposal that the American Mathematical Society Sponsor a National
Seience Foundation Supported Symposium of University Computing
Center Representatives to be held in Conjuction with the Society
Meeting at the University of Chicago, April 22-23, 1960.

The purpose of this meeting would be to investigate problems

peculiar to University Computing Centers and publish a report
emboding the findings. It is suggested that the meeting occupy
three full days to be allocated approximately as follows.

On the first day the group of representatives, which might

number perhaps 85 or so, would divide itself into five subgroups,
each discussing one of the following questions:

1)

2)

3)

Lt)

5)

Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "sold" and
what fraction should be free?

Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of machines?
What are the opportunities for theses in these fields, how are
such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted
on the basis of these theses?

Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be

of fered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of other appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual
content, intimately involving computing machines, are being
given and in what departments?

Computing service to university departments: Who in the college
should be given "free time"? What priority system can be set up

in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish between free

and paying users? What are appropriate forms for interdepartmental
supervisory committees to administer such a service program?

Government relations: How should work done under government
contracts be charged? Would it be feasible to establish a
uniform scale of charges for the various machines and services
throughout the Country.


Dio

Each of these subgroups would elect two representatives to
present the concludions of the day's deliberations to the full
meeting of the conference next day. On that day these conclusions
would be further discussed and if necessary modified for final
recommendations. Also a group would be elected to plan on the
following day a publication emboding the results of the conference.

It is suggested that the committee planning the conference
consist of Professor Philip M. Morse, M.I.T., Chairman Professor
Walter Freiberger, Brown University; Professor Alex Orden, University
of Chicago; Professor J.W.T. Youngs, University of Indiana, and any
further members, as may be desirable.


Proposed Budget

Some costs of the Symposium can be borne by having them charged
to Government contracts of the individuals concerned. We have estimated that
there will be 85 grants for travel expense and per diem. The average travel grant

is estimated to be $150 and the average per diem $72 or 6 days at $12 per day. Thus

OVO ts or es castes Vere siiraitie Sie Se tt Co osama ay Oy $12, 750.00

Per Diem. ....coeveiennsenncenenietnatassoncnosancnnns 6,120.00
Conference Reporting Service. ....ccevveeneesscsaccens 1,700.00
Editing Reports ....... er EE ET AE i mee 500. 00
Typing Edited Report (100 pp.).......... chs ties a ws ie seaTe 225.00
Multilithing (300 copies). ...eeecees i A ee TER 375.00
Organizing Committee EXpenses .......ceeeeetecasnancns 500.00
Total Direct EXpenses ....coceeeeeseesenscsnnsonsascns $22,170.00
Indirect Expenses (estimated at 25% of Direct)........... 5,542.50

TOTAL co aoa am a es $27,712. 50


