'O

—ll=

in devising algorithms for the solution of problems of game
theory, also of potential importance in these areas.

2. General studies of the use of machines in the
storage and translation of information have already been started
at M.I.T. A project in machine translation has already been set
up, under the direction of Professor Locke of the Language Depart-
ment. As it develops, it will need the help of machine programming
specialists and will need the use of a machine to test 1ts ldeas.
The translation project is already supported by the Rockefeller
Foundation, but parallel work by the Computation Center on tech-
niques for rapid access to large-quantity data would help this work
as well as others. For example, a study of the use and operation
of the M.I.T. libraries was begun last year. At present, the study
is concerned with the ways the library is being used at present,
but it is expected to move on to the consideration of possible im-
provement of library operation and extension of its use as a re-
search tool in science and engineering. One promising direction
of investigation is in the application of machine techniques to
1library inventorying, cataloguing, and record-keeping. Although
speclal-purpose machines will probably be required in the end, many
jdeas and procedures can be developed and checked out on the general-
purpose machine at the Center with the addition, perhaps, of some
specially built input and output equipment. The staff of the M.1.T.
Library is interested in this work, and will contribute its knowl-
edge to its progress.

3. A digital computer can be used as an integral part
of many experiments in the social sciences. It can be used to
simulate certain operational situations and thus to provide data
rapidly and under controlled conditions. For example, automoblle
traffic distributes itself through the streets of a town according
to some minimization principle, on the average. It should be
possible to simulate this flow on the computer, trying different
assumptions as to the effective "street resistances” and measuring
the resulting flow under various traffic stresses to see how closely
the results check with measurements made in the Boston streets by
the Traffic Study Group already in operation in the Civil Engineering
Department at M.I.T. Tactical situations 1n warfare are already
being studied by “gaming techniques" at Rand and in other military
operations research groups. Similar tactical problems in various
fields of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying
the situation down to some sort of "game," with more or less com-
licated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators{ to
see what are the consequences of various strategies. If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to some actual soclal slituation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require
a great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that
only by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded
up sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide