Tos Dr. Carl F, Floe August 5, 1960

From: Philip M. Morse, Director

Subject: President's Report, Section on the Computation Center
—

During thé:-third year of operation of the Computation
Center, the exponentially rising curve of demand for machine
time definitely crossed the curve of time available on the
704 digital computer, which has been provided to the Center by
IBM. During the spring of 1960 serious delays in finishing
computations were only avoided by round-the-clock and week-end
operation. Although during the year 641 computing problems
were active, including computations for 216 theses, many large
problems were postponed or delayed because of the crowded
schedule. Three actions have been taken to relieve this overload,

In the first place, the International Business Machines
Corporation is replacing the 704 computer, which it has provided
and maintained at the Center for the last three years, with a
709 computer. This machine, which is scheduled to be in operation
by September 1960, due to improved input-output facilities will be
up to twice as fast as the TOA.

In the second place, the Center staff has initiated
programming research and equipment development to provide multiple,
time-shared, input-output facilities so that several users can
run their programs simultaneously. By the fall 1960 term, two
Flexowriter links will be running in parallel with the main
operating console of the 709, so that new programs can be checked
out and short computations can share machine time with longer,
regularly scheduled, computing runs. Eventually it 1s hoped to
have several dozen such links in operation, in various parts of
the Institute, all connected with the central processing units
of the computer. Only thus will it be possible for a machine user
to maintain direct contact during his calculation without wasting
valuable machine time while typing in his request, receiving his
answer and formulating his next request.

In the third place, it has now become apparent to several
large research projects that their computing needs are large enough
so that they should budget for and install their own machines.


mle |

Experience with the Center has shown them the value of machine
computation and has enabled them to estimate fhe magnitude of
their requirements. By buying or renting their own machines
they will free the Center to devote more machine time to thesis,
Sandy and laboratory work, which is at present expanding rapidly
n volume, Aa | PAE AE nar aie

A number of compiler programs aimed at improving the
flexibility of use of the 709 and also at expanding its none
numerical capabilities, have been developed during the past
year. A linking-segment system will enable the programmer to
use several different programming languages in a single program.
The COMIT compiler-interpreter for mechanical language trans-
lation has been virtually completed and is being adapted for
the 709. The LISP programming system has developed to the |
point where it can get the machine to carry out algebraic
manipulations. With further work the system will facilitate the
use of the machine in more general mathematical problem-solving.
Extension to other machine-learning experiments is planned.
Details of these programs ¢an be found in the semi-annual reports
of the Center. | |

The use of the Center by the thirty-one cooperating New
England universities has also increased during the past year.
Although several of the larger users have installed small machines
on their own campuses, their participation in the activities of
the Center has not diminished; in several instances, it has grown.
Several colleges have brought their classes in computation to
the Center for Saturday laboratory sessions.


