Minutes of the Eighteenth Meeting
' of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation
June 7, 1951

Persons Present: R. R. Everett, Z. Kopal, C. Lin, P. M. Morse,
. and H. Reissner

Morse announced that the next meeting of the Commitiee would
be in Dr. Strattonts oifice 10:00 A.M., Wednesday, the 20th of
June., The agenda at that meeting will be a discussion of future
plans for the ONR contract and for activities in the general field
of computing machines for next year. Morse suggested that Pro-
fessor Martin be asked to come to the meeting to discuss possible
Mathematics Department plans.

Relssner brought{ up a new applicant for a part-time assistant-
ship in the machine field for next year -- Mr. B. F. Handy. He
recommended that the Committee approve this appointment, and, after
discussing the candidate's qualifications, the Committee did
SO BpPRIrova. It was to be lefit to Mr. Iverett and Proifessor
Reissner to see Mr. Handy and to decide as to whether Handy'!s ap-
pointment as a half-time assistant should start about July first
or whether Handy should be enployed as a full-time DIC staff menber
on the Whirlwind Project for the swmer, going on the half-tine
Math. Department appointment at the beginning of the Fall Term.
Reissner .18 to notify Morsels office as to which decision has been
made.,

Morse reported that Verzuh had completed his Math. minor
progran by obtaining a zrade of € in M39. He said that Verzuh
feels he will be ready for his general examination about the fif-
teenth of July. He asked Kopal to notify Professor Viesner that
Verzuh'!s examination is coming up this summer so that a proper -
date could be set for the oral part of this examination. Morse
wlill write a note to Professor Martin, recuesting the Math. De-
partment o supply a written part on the appropriate subjects in
mathenatics to be taken before the oral. The oral part will be
on selected voplcs in electrical engineering and on computing
machine operation and computational methods.

The next meeting of the Committes will be on June 20, as

mentioned above,
Philip~M.-Morse, V\wahgl‘-~_~___~

Chairman