Need for Support - The capacity of the Center to handle
increasing demands is ited by lack of full-time staff to aid the
users in solving thelr problems and to develop programs and auxiliary
equipment to make the machine easier to use. This staff must be of
high quality, able to teach classes and also to participate in
research in machine logic and numerical analysis. The Center operates
on the "open-shop" plan, the user doing his own coding and other
preparation work, but many users need help in finding the most
efficient way to organize their program, and all of them would save
time if wore utlility programs and more flexible input-output equip-
ment were available. An intensive project for the development of
techniques and facilities to make the machine easier to use by the
cceasional user has been 1nitiated. This project will require financial
support if it is to be carried out in time to be of help to users in
the next few years.

, Develonment‘gg’Utilit% Programgé - In addition to assisting
individual users in putting thelr problem on the machine, the Center
sgtaff have the important task of making the machine easier to use by

all users. It always takes time, the experience of many users, to

reveal all the capablilities of any piece of machinery; this is parti-
cularly true of high-speed computers. Because of their speed and
complexity it will take a dozen years or more before even the full
capabllities of our present machines are known, and by that time machines
of 2%ill more speed and complexity will be built. A computer of the
size of the TO4 has an order of complexity such that its designers
literally are not aware of all of its capabilities. Consequently it is
lmportant that research into these capabilities be carried on; such
research, revealing easier ways of obtaining results and new methods of
operation, may at times go farther in increasing machine serviceability
for the general user than can the providing of a new machine with
increased speed or capacity.

A few years ago.a machine user had to become familiar with
binary arithmetic and with all the other idioscyncrasies of the primary
machine operating code, Jjust as the early auto owner had to be familiar
with spark and choke and clutch. As time goes on it is less and less
necessary for the occasional user to master all these details in order
To use the machine, even if he has to devise a program for a new prodlem.
In the first place, many of the more usual calculations will have been
already programmed sc That, for example, if one wishes to compute a
Bessel function or tc apply the chi-squared test for the fit of a
formula ©o a set of date, one need only use the ready-tested program.
In The second place, 1t is possible to provide a heirarchy of "trans-
lation procedures” -- assembly and operator programs, etc. -- whereby
he machine 1tself willl translate the desires of the user, expressed
in language more familiar to him, into the specialized "language" of
the basic machine code., This may be termed programming at the second

¢t