L

TRIP REPORT

e

T S —

Flace Visited: Uh}ggrg#y of Muuchuu)?& Amherst, Massachusetts
Persons Seen: Provost Sherman McCune; Dean of the School of Engineering,
~ Prof. Marston; Dean of the School of Agriculture,
Prof. Sieling; and Prof. Stan Gaunt, School of Agriculture;
Prof. Albert Goss, Psychology Department and Prof. Kirschwin

This call was made with Mr. Cliff Sink, IBM Manager, Springfield office, and
Mr. J. F. King, salesman for this account.

We conducted the meeting at a luncheon in the Student Union Building on the
campus. I gave the group a briefing on the present status of the MIT
Computation Center and outlined to them the procedures that have been set-up
- for their utilization of the Center. Many of them, in fact, most of them were
quite unfamiliar even at this stage with the program. Provost McCune said that
the announcement had been made many months ago but the word does not seem
to have gotten spread around as it should have. This is partially due to the fact
that the former university representative, Prof. John H. Karlson of the
Electrical Engineering Department, is no longer there. A replacement for

him has not yet been appointed, however, both Provost McCune and Dean Marston
indicated that a replacement would be appointed in the very near future..

I informed them of the forthcoming meeting of all university representatives
in November. The date for this mesting has not yet been set, however, it is
anticipated that the date will be set by Wednesday of next week at which time
Prof. Morse will have invitations sent out to all participating colleges.

The second item which we discussed was the 650 educational contribution
program available at this time. Considerable interest in the 650 program was
indicated by Provost McCune, Dean Marston, Prof. Gaunt and Proi. Goss.

The other two members of the group were somewhat ef-the non-committal on the
subject. Dean Sieling indicated a great deal of misgiving Wi¢th the university's
ability to raise the necessary funds to finance a 650 program. lagreed to

send to Provost McCune and Prof. Goss a list of courses which are recommended
as good courses in Numerical Analysis and Data Processing.

 

Dean Marston raised the question of how soon representatives from the
University of Massachusetts could be trained on programming the 704, 1
informed him that,as of this moment, MIT is conducting only one course per
year given in August. However, it is anticipated that this will be increased to

at least two courses per year. I also pointed out that arrangernents could be
made to send oneor more persons from the university to a regular IBM conducted
704 course. The next one given in this area begins ou November 12,