e_a-E-E

4?.

 

/’ ' .~ '7 ' ‘

commas on sac-s: means or conrumnon
'Hinutes _o_r_ the Third song; I
' December 3, 1953

Persons Present: 1!. Feshbach, c. c. Lin, P. n. Horse,
a. .. "" "' w. H. Seifert, F. n. Verzuh ,

Horse reviewed the discussions between the Mreau of‘
Standards Tables Computing Grou , the Applied Mathematics Ad-
visory Committee to the Bureau of which Horse is non chairman),
and the National Science Foundation regarding 7a conference on the
needs for numerical tables and facilities for making these tables.
He reported that it had been suggested that MIT sponsor such a ‘
conference next spring and the possibility that the Science Foun-
dation could finance such a conference. It was suggested that to
explore these possibilities a subcomittee of Feshbach, Hildebrand,
andthiorse be set up to report back to the main committee at; sum future
nee ”22a:-

Verzuh then reviewed the present operation of the differ-
ential analyzer and its .possible budget for later operation. At
present, the differential analyzer is financed and is completely
used by the Instrumentation Lab. The present budget is about
330,000 a year for personnel (2 engineers , chnician 1 com-
puter) with 110 per cent overhead, about a year or na- >4 M
t ials and this vi h a small maintenance cost brings the total
budge o a a year. Verzuh reported that on an
austerity basis the dget could be cut mainly in the personnel
"cost to about $20,000 a year.

- Seifert outlined in a similar manner the budget for the
DACL analogue computer. The present budget is over- a half million
a year, but if the machine were cut down to one row of D0 equip-
ment and one row of Ac equipment (allowing nearly 100 operations,
such as intea-ation or multiplication), the budget then, including
2 or 3 technicians and a supervisor and engineer, would be about ‘
$35,000 a year.

Verzuh then reviewed the IBM equipment. At present,
the budget is about $85,000 a year, which includes salaries for
about 8 people, material of about 53,000, and EH rental, for the
rest of which $17,000 a year is needed for equipment used by the
Institute in its administration. On an austerity basis Verzuh
recouncnded that several of the machines be relinquished (such
as the Gen) and that the staff could be reduced to 3 or I}. The
budget then would cone to $17,000 for the equipment needed for
HIT administration, $21,000 for search-computing equipment, and
about $12,000 for salaries, making a total minim budget of about
350,000 a year. This could, of course, be reduced materially if.
IBM would reduce its rental charges on part or all of the equipment.

Then followed a general discussion concerning what
equipment should be kept and how the committee should recomend


‘ -2-
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation-minute; of Third ﬂeeting

in certain matters. It was felt that before any report on the
subject of eventual support of the computing equipment at the
Inatitute could he started, the committee should discuss the”
matters with a number of other people: Professors Draper, Brown,
Hronee, Messrs. Inning and Paynter and perhaps other: of other

computing groups. Morse will try to set one or more or these
persons to come to the committee's next meeting.

The next meeting is to he at 3:00 p.n., Thursday,
January ?. '

“WWW
Philip Horse

Chairman

PHMJM


