’o

e

1. Bow are tables made?
2., What functions need to be tabulated?
g. What: form should tables have?

. What should this country do about prcducing
tables?

It is suggested that the conference room in the Hayden Library
be used and that arrvangements be made to house the fonferces
together, if possible. Conclusions of the conference, and
vhatever recoumendsaiions are arrived at, would be published
for presentation to the Science Foundation and to the Institute
and for distribution to other interested parties.

6. This conference can be planned and organized
by the Institute Committee on Machine Calculation and Numerical
Analysis, which has the following membership: |

Philip M. Morse, Chairman, Professor of Physics

S. H. ’aldwell, Profensor of Electrical Engireering
Herman Feshbach, Assccilate Professor of Physics

J. W. Forrester, Director, Project Whirlwind

F. B. Hildebrand, Associlate Professor of Mathematics
J. A. Hrones, Professor of Mechanical Engineering
C. C. Lin, Professor of Mathematlcs

7. Thz budget required would be for travel and
subsistence expyses of the participants and for the propara-
tion and publicitlon of the Report of the Conference. If we
assume that soma of the conferees come from Washington and
some from Califcrnia, we might expect an average fare plus
personal expences of about 180 a person. In addition, there
will be sore secvetarial costs, publication costs and incl-
dentals, so the budget would appear to be as follows, for 25
participants:

Travel fare (average RT Fll0)-eewoecoceco-- £3,500
Expencea (average for 2 days, f80)ec---co-- 1,000
Secretirial @id-cemmccmcnncccacccccccncnna" 200

Producing and distributing report
(100 >ages, €Bt.)-ceverwemmmecccccccaccax 500
Tnelder8l8-cecccercccncnccnconccncccccaces ___200
Total #5,200

This would appear 0 be a reasonable figure. If the cost
turned out to be 1:338 (some participants might come at thelr
own or other expeinve), the exceas cin be returned to the
Fouadation.

8. It i proposed that {he National Science
Foundation be requisted to be co-s:onsor of such a conference