THE HARTFORD SEMINARY FOUNDATION
55 Elizabeth Street ¢ Hartford, Connecticut 06105

FORD LEWIS BATTLES
PHILIP SCHAFF PROFESSOR OF
CHURCH HISTORY

10 July 1964

Director

M.I.T. Computer Center
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Sir:

As initiators of a project for the preparation by computer of a
Concordance to the Works of John Calvin, we are writing you both
t o acquaint you with the project and to appeal for help.

It is our understanding that certain computer facilities at M. I. T.
are open to approved projects initiated by educational institutions in
the New England area. The Hartford Seminary Foundation, a long-
established interdenominational post-graduate theological school,
through its Board of Trustees has approved the Concordance pro-
posal and has advanced a small sum to initiate the work. The de-
tails of the proposal are covered in the enclosed paper.

We should very much appreciate your studying this paper; if
then you will advise us of the steps to take in requesting help from
your facility, we shall be indeed grateful.

X

SS gua NO
Sincerely yours, =>

4 2 ™N ] )
bom lan, | © =

Ford Lewis Battles

encl. \ \ n XL


A CONCORDANCE PROGRAM FOR THE WORKS
OF JOHN CALVIN

Summary

One of the glories of classical scholarship is an impressive
array of concordances to ancient Greek and Latin writers, For the
Scriptures, too, and also for the corpus of Roman law there are
comparably exhaustive indices to the texts. These concordances
were compiled with enormous and tedious labor by dedicated re-
searchers and their assistants. It would be hard in our day to find
such persons to work thus selflessly for hours and years. Yet we
have at hand an instrument of truly amazing capabilities, the elec-
tronic computer, to carry out: research of such fundamental and
necessary character,

The application of the electronic computer to the immediate
task, the first concordance in the series, is essentially simple. The
enormous bulk of the Institutes (slightly under 500, 000 words in
Latin) will be stored on magnetic tapes so that many kinds of ques-
tions may be propounded to this 'memory'. Properly interrogated,
the machine will print a complete alphabetical listing of each word
with its immediate context. What is more, questions of syntax, of
rhetorical structure, of meaning itself can be swiftly and directly
raised, if the project has been duly programmed. Duplicate tapes
can be made available to interested scholars at cost. The advances
in. knowledge possible, once the magnetic memory is put to use, will
be remarkable. With uncanny speed the computer will search the
entire length of the Institutes on any point within its grasp raised
by the researcher,

Work on the Institutes Concordance has already begun with
the help of a small loan from the Hartford Seminary Foundation. To
complete this first volume and the remaining ones in the proposed
series will, however, require sponsorship and financial assistance
from outside sources. It is to this end that the present appeal is
made,

4 July 1964 Ford Lewis Battles Ph, D.
Schaff Professor of Church History
The Hartford Seminary Foundation
Hartford, Connecticut, U.S. A.


A Concordance to the Works of John Calvin

One of the glories of classical scholarship is an impressive
array of concordances to ancient Greek and Latin writers, For
the Scriptures, too, and also for thé corpus of Roman law there
are comparably exhaustive indices to the texts. With such tools,

a wide range of questions can be answered with comparative ease.
However, when the scholar moves into Christian literature no such
faithful servants stand at his elbow. How often, for example, have
historians of Christian thought wished that a complete concordance
existed for the works of Augustine!

Concordances of classical and biblical authors were compiled
with enormous and tedious labor by dedicated researchers and
their assistants, It would be hard in our day to find such persons
to work thus selflessly for hours and years. Yet we have at hand
an instrument of truly amazing capabilities, the electronic com-=-
puter, to carry out research of such fundamental and necessary
character.

Some limited application of the computer has been made in
religious thought. Using a computer, John W. Ellison prepared a
Concordance to the Revised Standard Version of the Bible. An
Aquinas Concordance is under preparation. Computer technique
is being applied to problems in Bible translation. Yet efforts such
as these have barely scratched the surface of the vast possibilities
of the computer in theological investigation.

The need for such tools is apparent to anyone who has devoted
years to textual and source study and to translation of religious
works from one language to another. The translator of Calvin's
Institutes of the Christian Religion for the Library of Christian
Classics found it necessary to construct by hand a select word-
list in order to insure accuracy and consistency of rendering.

But such lexicographic efforts were minimal in character and only
ancillary to the prime tasks of editing and translating. It was out

of this long and laborious experience that the thought came to pro-
pose a full concordance to the Institutes, to be followed by concor-
dances to Calvin's other works. That these efforts could lead to a
much wider field of concordance activity is quite obvious,


Why the Institutes of Calvin? Not only is this perhaps the
chief Protestant work in the shaping of modern Christian thought;
it is also a faithful if selective compend of Scriptural, Patristic,
and Scholastic tradition as well. Thus it is a logical starting point
in a fresh assessment of the whole of Christian thought. Calvin's
Latinity spans the Latinity of the Christian era, and his Christian
humanism embraces both the Greek and Roman past, A Concor-
dance to the Institutes will lead not only to a completer understand-
ing of Calvin and the Calvinist tradition, but it will also help to un-
cover the various substrata of the Reformation itself. Coupled
with concordances to his tracts, commentaries, letters, and pos =
sibly sermons--to be compiled subsequently-=-such an instrument
will be of immense value,

The concrete notion of a Calvin Concordance actually grew
out of conversations between Professor Otto Weber of the University
of Goettingen and the present writer in 1963. It is actually a first
step in the preparation of a definitive Commentary on Calvin's In-
stitutes, a project long dreamed of by both scholars and now happily
to be the object of their collaboration. The usefulness of the Con-
cordance in making the Commentary will be obvious to all.

II

Upon his return to the United States, the present writer be-
gan to study the feasibility of preparing, by computer, a concordance
to the Institutes. The area of Hartford, Connecticut, is particularly
rich in computer installations, both in universities and in business
firms. Besides considerable correspondence, there has been con-
sultation with Robert Singleton, Director of Projects for the College
of Quantitative Studies at Wesleyan University; with Professor W,
Nelson Francis and collaborators in the American English Syntax
Project at Brown University; with Philip Chase of the Buxton Leather
Co. ; and with Russell Leinbach, Vice President in charge of data pro-
cessing at the Travelers Insurance Company. Through the good
offices of Mr. Leinbach and of Dr. Thomas Malone, Mr. Leon W.
Case III of the Travelers has agreed to collaborate with the initiator
as computer specialist for the project. It is from these preliminary
studies that the present paper has been written.

The application of the electronic computer to the immediate
task is essentially simple. The enormous bulk of the Institutes


(slightly under 500,000 words in Latin) will be stored on magnetic
tapes so that many kinds of questions may be propounded to this
‘memory’, Properly interrogated, the machine will print a com-
plete alphabetical listing of each word with its immediate context.
What is more, questions of syntax, of rhetorical structure, of
meaning itself can be swiftly and directly raised, if the project
has been duly programmed. Duplicate tapes can be made available
to interested scholars at cost. The advances in knowledge possible,
once the magnetic memory is put to use will be remarkable. With
uncanny speed the computer will search the entire length of the
Institutes on any point within its grasp raised by the researcher,

III

Although special syntactic and other questions, as has been
suggested, may be propounded to the resultant tape, the primary
and general goal of the project is a printed concordance. Concor-
dances to Latin works vary tremendously in scope and format.

The slightest form is that of an index verborum, wherein the chief
words are listed with strings of location numbers, but no context.
Far more useful for the scholar and student, but much more com-
plicated and costly to produce by conventional methods, is the true
concordance, wherein each occurrence of each word is printed
with its context, the four or five neighboring words.

The electronic computer is ideally suited for the production
of such a concordance, Once the entire text has been encarded and
transferred to magnetic tape, the computer can be programmed
to search each word alphabetically and print it with its immediate
context in proper order. Not only can such a print-out be made on
conventional paper; duplicating masters can also be made directly
for multilith or other reproduction. Thus, with a minimum of in-
termediate steps--hence fewer occasions for error--a very useful
(if slightly inelegant) concordance can be compiled.

Normally, when such a project is initiated, considerable ef-
fort must be put into pilot efforts and programming studies. But
with present knowledge gained from both academic applications and
varied business uses, it is possible to frame a plan utilizing one of
the set procedures for sorting offered by the manufactorer of the
computer to be employed. Certain conventional symbols will have


to be agreed upon; it is hoped that these may be based broadly
enough to apply to a wide range of future concordances, both in

Latin and in other languages, and covering a number of other
theologians,

The following sections outline (2) some of the anticipated
problems in preparing a Latin-language concordance by computer,
and (b) the general technical aspects of constructing such a com-=-
puter program.

IV

There are certain characteristics of the Latin language which
impede clear alphabetical sorting and selection of meaningful con-
texts by machine. In English, plurals of nouns give little trouble,
except for a few Anglo-Saxon survivals, Certain strong (drink,
drank, drunk) and irregular verbs (go, went, gone), and the per-
sonal pronouns afford some alphabetical displacement. The verb
to be causes problems in western European languages. The Greek
epsilon, (the imperfect tense prefix) and the general complexity of
Greek conjugation, for example, would raise greater problems
probably than Latin, Yet Latin has its share of difficult features.

First of all, word derivation from a common root causes a
mixing of parts of speech when strict alphabetization is followed.
This will be an acute difficulty in Calvin because of his fondness
for the use of related words--verbs, nouns, adjectives, and ad-
verbs, For example: efficere, effectus, efficax, efficacia;
appetere, appetitio, appetitus, appetentia. His style abounds in
abstract nouns (derived mainly from verbs). Thus, in alphabeti-
cal order one might find:

effectus (noun; perf. pass. s., part. of efficere)
efficacem (adj. m/f s. accus.)

efficacia (noun, nom or abl. sing.)

efficacibus (adj., dat. /abl. pl.)

efficere (vb. , inf.)

efficiam (vb., 1st s. fut act. ind.)

This example also illustrates in part the anomalies -~alpha-
betically considered--of the Latin inflectional system. Most acute


verbs, where stem changes are often great; and also in irregular

comparison of certain Common adjectives (bonus, melior, optimus)
and of Corresponding adverbs, Even among comparatively regularly
inflected parts of Speech alphabetic sorting by entire words will do
violence to conventional paradigmatic order: reference to such a
common verb as amare will bear this out.

Beyond these lexical peculiarities are to be found matters of
a higher order of complexity. Many of Calvin's sentences are long
and hierarchically organized; clauses are often interlaced in such a
way that the printing of the near context will not reveal the most im-
portant aspects of a particular construction,

Finally, Latin does not possess a uniform orthography, The
Barth-Niesel edition of the Institutes and the Corpus Reformatorum
edition of Calvin's other works pose little problem here, but com-
parative studies with other authors will be affected by these variant
spellings, e.g., ae/oe, i/j, ulv, ct/th, etc. If, at a later stage, a
concordance to Calvin's French-language writings is decided upon,
Some conventions with regard to orthography will have to be worked
out,

Certain arbitrary decisions are here proposed to meet these
problems of alphabetization:

(1) The irregular principal parts of certain verbs (as
well as of adjectives, etc. ) will be separately en-
tered at their normal alphabetic position;

l. The following conventions will be observed in key-punching
the Barth-Niesel text: a) all material within square brackets in the
text will be omitted, being replaced by a sign of omission; b) all
superscripts (letters and numbers) will be disregarded; also all
parallel lines and marginalia; c) all capitalization will be disre-
garded; d) all footnotes will be disregarded; e) all non-Latin words
will be Romanized as pre-edited; f) all words divided between ends
of line and beginning of next will be carried undivided on first of
two lines--except when by so doing there is not enough space in
the first line, in which case the divided word will be typed undivided
in the second of the two lines; g) all punctuation will be separated

from previous word by no space at all, but from the following by a
space,


(2) Normal paradigmatic order for inflected words
will not be followed, but each will be listed regard-
less of form in order of appearance in the Institutes;

(3) Certain common words will be eliminated from the
Concordance proper, to cult bulk and costs, es-
pecially machine time and printing.

The computer-influenced portion of our task begins with the
selection of the character set which will be used in transferring
the text from its published format to a computer-readable medium.
The medium selected for this task is that of punched cards. The
card punch machine imposes certain limitations on the way we may
transcribe our text to punched cards as it has a rather limited
character set. This character set includes the twenty-six alpha-
betic symbols, the ten decimal digits, the period, the space, the
comma, and a few other business-oriented symbols such as the
dollar-sign, the percent-sign and the slash,

Symbols found in text materials such as the question mark,
exclamation point, colon, semi-colon, dash, etc., must be re-
presented on the punched cards in such a way that they may be en-
tered into the computer operations and emerge as part of the final
concordance. Other symbols which do not appear in the Latin
should not be precluded at this juncture if at all possible. These
include the hyphen and the normal accents of the western European
languages.

A scheme has been devised to represent these two categories
of typographic symbols which may be encountered. The first cate-
gory is that of punctuation symbols and the second is that of charac-
ters which are parts of words. By using one of the business-oriented
symbols as a prefix followed by one of the thirty-six alphanumeric
characters to represent each of the desired typographic symbols we
can greatly expand our effective character set. By allocating a
separate prefixing symbol or symbols to each of the two categories
mentioned above, we will facilitate subsequent computer processing,

Once the character set has been agreed upon, we proceed to
the task of prescribing a format for the actual key-punching of the


text. To provide protection against misordering the cards durin
manual processing, each card should have a unique number ated
into it. This number may be modified during computer processing
to Provide a cross reference between the concordance and the orig-
inal text, Again with an eye toward program generality, a ten-digit

card number has been agreed upon. In our present application, the
digits will be assigned as follows:

Book 1 digit
Chapter 2 digits
Section 2 digits
Page 3 digits
Line 2 digits

Other punching conventions to be used include the employment of the
$ to indicate the end of a sentence and the # to indicate an omission.
Verification of the key-punching is optional and dependent upon the
reliability of the original key=-puncher,

The next step in processing is to transcribe these cards to
magnetic tape.

The first computer operation is called the input data edit and
will perform several functions:

a) Sequence-check the input data on the basis of the ten-
digit card identifier;

b) Provide notification of any sequence errors and make
some assumptions (such as, a sequence break indi-
cates the start of a new sentence) and continue pro-
cessing;

c) Using the first (five) digits of the sequence number as
a base, and detecting the beginnings of sentences,
create a (seven) digit number of the following format:

Book 1 digit
Chapter 2 digits
Section 2 digits
Sentence 2 digits

d) Match each complete word, including rejoined hyphe-
nated words, against a small dictionary of frequently
occurring words to be omitted;

e) If the word is not to be omitted, compose a card-length
record for it by space-filling to the right up to a pre


determined size, in this case, twenty characters;
follow this by the Seven-digit sentence identifier
being developed; follow this by the context of the word
Composed of the twenty-five characters Preceding the
selected word, a Space, the initial letter of the se-
lected word, a Space and the twenty-five characters
following the selected word, for a total record size of
eighty characters. (The 80-character record length
was chosen because of the frequency of occurrence of
card length records in Computer applications. This
will insure that the sorting program normally pro-
vided by a manufacturer with his computer would be
usable by our system, eliminating the necessity of
Creating the most complex program of our system, )
f) If benefit can be gained by ''batching'' several card-
length records into each magnetic tape record to hold
the required number of tapes to a minimum, it would
be done here and the resultant records be written to
the output magnetic tape(s).

 

The next computer operation is the aforementioned sorting,
whose criterion will be the combination of the selected words and the
seven-digit sentence identifier. The output from the sorting opera-
tion will be the basic information for the concordance, a complete
dictionary, including a frequency count for each word, and a list of
singly-appearing words for special attention, 2

Printing of the various listings mentioned above would complete
the computer operations.

It is suggested that Book I of the Institutes be used as a first
set of data to provide a small-volume representative sample to test
the whole system. A small list of words to be omitted would serve
to test that portion of the input edit program as well as to limit the
volume of data produced and the Computer time necessary to produce
it.

2. It is possible that words appearing several times within the

text will clarify any such reordering,


The project here outlined is a pioneering effort, and cannot
hope to elicit financial support until at least a representative part
of the work is done. To this end, the Trustees of the Hartford
Seminary Foundation have graciously lent a small sum, to be repaid
as soon as outside aid is forthcoming, to begin work. The under-

signed have drafted the present document after considerable pre-
liminary studies,

The punching of Book I of the Institutes is currently underway.
A graduate student in linguistics and history at Hartford Seminary,
Miss Dora Koundakjian, has been trained in key=-punching technique
, by the data-processing staff of the Travelers Insurance Co. to do
this first phase of the task. When this first portion is completed,
the undersigned will carry out studies looking to the processing of
the entire book. Plan for future concordance work will be determined
by the outcome of the present venture.

At the present moment, the undersigned co-workers need the
following kinds of help: (1) sponsorship and consultation at a high
ecclesiastical and academic level, (2) financial support for costs
of key-punching, equipment rental, technical assistance, and sup-
plies, (3) willingness to donate, or at least to provide at nominal
cost, computer time, (4) assistance in publishing the concordance.
No one organization or individual can offer all four sorts of help,
but all interested can assist in one way or another,

Leon W. Case III, B.A. Ford Lewis Battles, Ph. D.
Computer Analyst Schaff Professor of Church History
The Travelers Insurance Co. The Hartford Seminary Foundation

Translator of Calvin's Institutes

4 July 1964


