6.

SUMMARY OF THIS PROJECT:
(Should begin with a brief statement of the over-all purpose and also

include a statement of the work performed since the last Directory as well
28 the future work planned. Should be about 100 words in length with allow-

. ance for the size of the particular project, and should be written in

" " language wvhich is meaningful to technical people who are not specialists

in this particular field. The Industrial Liaison Office will modify this
summary as necessary for editorial consistency with other projects described
in the book and will return it to the person in charge for approval.)

The Machine Methods of Computation and Numerical Analysis projeect has Been
terminated as of June 30, 1956. A complete set of terminating reports deseribing
the actiwities of this project is contained in Quarterly Report No. 47.

The new M.I;T. Computation Center was set up effective July 1, 1956 having
as the principal objective the establishment of an outstanding oomputing center
at the Institute. The objeectives of this Center are three-fold:

1. To teaeh and train students and staff from the participatingfl.l.
educational institutions the most effective 704 machine methods of
computation.

2. To perform research in the field of machine utilization with specific

emphasis on sciemtifie emgineering, business, finance, and the social
sciences.

3. To develop new peripheral equipment (or new machines) in order to handle
the large-scale problems which exist in our new present-day technology.
For example, in the fields of social sciences, nuclear research, ete.

It should be emphasized that the work in the Computation Ceuter is to be
devoted exclusively to non-classified research in which the results are expected
to be incorporated in a publication. It is impomant to reeognize that the
Computation Center is to provide the basic tools for the education, research, and
devédopment, and not to be considered as a service bureau installation competing
with industrial concerns for reutine computational tasks.

The I.B.M. Corporation is comntributing the 704 installatioan and the cost of
maintaining this facility on the M.I.T. campus. Ia additiom, it is providing
funds for the appointment of approximately 36 research assistants at M.I.T. and
the various partieipating universities. The Natiomal Science Foundation has
contributed funds to the operation of the Center. ‘However, additional funds

must be raised to set up the first-rate research and operating staff required in
this installation. |