COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Eingteg of the §i§t§ Meeting
Academic Year f51e’52

Beggons éresent; 80 Ha Caldwellg Hn Feshbach, J. w. Forrester,
Co Lin. Pa M. Morse. and E. Beissnern

Morse reported that a proposal was being prepared for
a project with the Air Force which might support the IBM equip»
ment for research. This proposal is being prepared by Verzuh
and Morse and should be acted on by the Air Force in the next
month or soa If it goes through,_it will mean that the IBM equip-
ment will be supported sufficiently so that research using the
equipment will not require transfer of fundsa

Morse also reported that. in view of the fact that.
Kopal was not awarded a raise in rank, it appeared likely that the
course in Numerical Analysis would not be taught next year unless
someone else was found to teach it" Three solutions appeared pos~
sibles (l)that someone on the faculty already be found who would
be interested in teaching and working in this field; (2) that some-
one already in one of the projects he found to teach the course for
a year or so until we find a permanent solution; (3) that we find
someone from outside who could be appointed to teach this course and
who eventually could build up work at MalnTo in this field. All
three possibilities were discussed by the Committee. t was sug»
gested that Professor Hildebrand be approached to see whether he
would be interested in teaching the courseq Alec Dr» Ha Ro En
Grosch be approached to see whether he would be interested in
teaching such a courses 0n the basis of these reactionsg the
Committee can then discuss further action at its next meetingn
Morse mentioned that Dru Forman Acton, new at the Bureau of Stan»
dards Institute for Numerical Analysisg was recommended as a good
teacher interested in this fieldB who might be considered under
possibility {3)0

d The next meeting of the Committee will be on Wednesday,
March 99 at 3 pmm,

e:;¢——— $\ ¢§
" “I X

i maven
Phil Ema Morse” ““~
Ghairmen

2w13=52