MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY '
DIC 55<5 DIVISION OF INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASS.

April 11, 1955

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Memorandum to: D.I.C. Project Supervisors
From: F. L. Foster

Subject: D.I.C. Staff Salary Review - July 1955

A salary review for D.I.C. Staff Members effective July 1, 1955
has been approved by the M.I.T. Administration, and reconmendations for
appropriate increases are hersby requested. A merit increase budget has G
been approved, which when prorated for new hires, should represent approxi-
__» mately a $25/mo. increase on the ‘average D.I.C. Staff salary. However,
i% is expected that your recommendations will reflect application of the
actual merit increase on an jndividual basis giving due consideration to
such items as sge, training and experience, and relative contribution to
the projecto. |

Tnasmich as the starting rate schedule for D.I.C. Staff was |
modified during February 1955, an %}3} increase also has been author- Y
jged to bring salaries of present more nearly in line with new hires ‘
being made at the new rates. In your consideration of adjustment increases,
you should be guided by the followings: for staff O to l, years beyond the
Bachelor's Degree, maximum adjustment $25 per monthj L to 7 years beyond
Bachelor's, maximum adjustment $20 per month; 7 to 10 years, $15 per month
and 10 to 13 years, $10 per month.

Promotion increase recommendations should be separated from
merit and adjustment. .

Tt is not expected that recommendations will be made for staff
hired since March lst unless an ad justment appears to be in order. Such
cases should be covered by a separate memorandum.

Tt is planned to divide the D.I.C. Staff Members into three
groups as of July 1, 1955 in accordance with the policy statement issued by
Vice-President Cochrane on February 17, 1955. To refresh your memory, those
members of the research group will receive appointments as Research Staff -
DoI.C., members of the administrative group will receive appointments as \
Admind strative Staff - D.I.CJ, while members of the group providing
essentially specialized services will eontinue to be appointed as D.I.Co
Staff Members. As noted in the policy statement, a Jimited number of
appointments for periods extending beyond five years of employment will be
considered for outstanding Research Staff and key Administrative Staff.

/

You are requested to submit a copy of the attached form for sach <
D.1.C. Staff Member presently employed on your projects. This form allows
you to make recommendations for salary increases and types of appointments.

APR 1 2 1959