Dr. Grad -2 July 13, 1959

 

myself as chalrman, Professor Walter Freiberger of the Depart-
ment of Mathematics at Brown University as secretary, and other
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next year or two it would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to
college computing centers. The discussions could focus around
four general areast

1. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of
financling centers? What fraction of time can be "sold" and
what fraction should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of machines?
What are the opportunities for theses in these fields, how are
such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted
on the basgis of these theses?

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be
offered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of other appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses wlith real intellectual
content, intimately inveolving computing machines, are belng
given and in what departments?

4., Computing service to university departments: Who in the
college should be glven "free time"? What priority system can
be set up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between free and paying users? What are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory committees to administer such a
service program?

It was felt that a conference on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would result
in a report embodylng suggestions and mutual agreements on these
matters, would be of very great help to many directors of college
computing centers, particularly those just beginning or planning
to begin. It would seem to me that NSF would also be interested
in the results of such a conference. Certainly the question of
how college computing centers fit into their academic structure
and how they can help more completely to educate scientists and
engineers is something which has been a subject of discussion in
various parts of NSF to my knowledge. My question to you, there-
fore, is an exploratory one: Is NSF interested in such a confere
ence? Is 1t interested enough to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, according to
the latest list of Professor Reeves of Ohlo State. We had thought