mm:- mm: 17

those which the Contractor has under such subcontracts, except that in no
event shall the subcontractor be required to grant to the Government

patent rights in excess of those herein agreed to be granted to the
Government by the Contractor.

"(11) The Contractor shall, at the earliest practicable date,
notify the Contracting Officer in writing of any subcontract containing
a patent rights clause, furnish the Contracting Officer a copy of such
clause, and notify the Contracting Officer when such subcontract is
completed. It is understood that with respect to such subcontract clause,
the Government is a third party beneficiary; and the Contractor hereby
assigns to the Government all the rights that the Contractor would have
to enforce the subcontractor's obligations for the benefit of the
Government with respect to Subject Inventions. The Contractor shall not

be obligated to enforce the agreements of any subcontractor hereunder
relating to Subject Inventions.

"(1) When the Contractor shows that it has been delayed in _
the performance of this contract by reason of its inability to obtain in
accordance with paragraph (g) a suitable patent rights clause from a
qualified subcontractor for any item or service required under this
contract for which the Contractor itself does not have available facilities
or qualified personnel, the Contractor's delivery dates shall be extended
for a period of time equal to the duration of such delay; and, upon
request of the Contractor, the Contracting officer shall determine to what
extent, if any, an additional extension of the delivery dates and an
increase in contract prices based upon additional costs incurred by such
delay are proper under the circumstances,- end the contract shall be modified
accordingly. If the Contractor, after exerting all reasonable effort, is
unable to obtain a. qualified subco ntractor as set forth above, the Con-
tractor may submit to the Contracting Officer 1: written request for
waiver or modification of the requirement that a suitable patent rights
clause be included in the subcontract. Such request shall specifically
state that the Contractor has used all reasonable effort to obtain such
qualified. subcontractor, and shall cite the waiver or termination provision
hereinafter set forth. If, within thirty five (35) days after the date of
receipt of such request for a waiver or modification of said requirement,
the Contracting Officer shall fail to deny in writing such request, the
requirement shall be deemed to have been waived by the Government. If
within such period the Contractor shall receive a written denial of such
request by the Contracting Officer, this contract shall thereupon
automatically terminate and the rights and obligations of the parties
shall be governed by the provisions of the clause of this contract entitled
'Termination for the Convenience of the Government.’

A54093