a) Machine programming and coding personnel
b) Operations evaluation personnel
c) Business data handling personnel.

He went on to say that the I.B.M. Board would naturally evaluate any request
for additional gratis equipment for M.I.T. in light of the above. Specifi-
cally, for example, W. W. McDowell, Director of Engineering, would be very
concerned as to whether any gratis installation would further the development
of trained engineering personnel. Similarly, most members of the I.B.M. Board
would be greatly concerned about the development of personnel well versed in
business data handling procedures. Hurd specifically stated that he felt

that personnel trained in scientific computing were now more plentiful and no
longer a scarcity, whereas there is a definite dearth of personmel in the
business data handling field.

He further substantiated his needs by presenting a statement of
1.B.M.'s computer roduction schedule for the next two years. (See Table II)
It is apparent from the above table that the I.B.M. Board will be very con-
cerned about the effective utilization of the 705 and 650 machines since these
machines are designed principally for business data handling and processing.

Hurd then made the following suggestion. He wanted to know whether
M.I.T. would be interested in offering a Summer Session Course during 1955
at which I.B.M. would furnish the following:

a) A Type 650 Drum Calculator

b) An adequate number of I.B.M. persomnnel who are capable
of handling the problems application sections associated
with this course. (He felt that I.,B.M. should not furnish
personnel who would do active teaching, primarily because
he felt that they had nogne properly qualified, but further-
more because it simply was not proper for I.B.M. to appear
to "dominate.")

At this point it became evident that we should indicate what M.I.T.
was currently doing along these lines. Morse described the Summer Session
course in Operations Research which he has taught during the past two summers
and indicated that the School of Industrial Management (SIM) was to offer a
similar course during the summer of 1955. He also pointed out that C. A. Adams
was leaving M.I.T. on a leave-of-absence beginning February, 1955 and therefore
would not be available to present the business data handling course during the
summer of 1955 (unless M.I.T. could recall him for a two-week period). Floe
indicated that it was already too late to include a description of the sug-
gested course in the Summer Session brochure which is scheduled for release
early in January. However, he did indicte that a separate flyer could be sent
if the course were to be given. Finally, Verzuh expmssed his interest in
participating in such a summer session program and stated that the presentation
of such a course would naturally involve the cooperation of a number of M.I.T.
staff members as well as a few from outside the Institute (for example,

John Hancock Insurance Co. etc.). In this connection, it became apparent that
Hurd should meet with various members of the SIM to get a firsthand account

of their future plans in this area. It was therefore decided to arrange a
luncheon date which would include T. M. Hill, R. H. Gregory and T. M. Whitin.