e

but its expansion willl be hampered by the limitations of access

to the 704, as will be discussed later.

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded
rapldly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their worl
(including their class exercises). But this use tends to be self-
limiting for, as soon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec-
late the possibilities in education and research of computers, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campus.
By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions have machines
of Their cwn. These are smaller machines, of the 650 type, {with
some larger machines projected), so these institutions still come
to The Center to use the TO4 for their bigger “jobs: but it does

L
mean that the use of the Center by the other New England colleges
will Tend to level off to a reasonable load (about one shift, 46

now appears) rather than growing continuously, as the MIT usage is
doing. Thils result, of course, is in accord with our conviction
chat computers should be as prevalent as chemistry laboratories,

In contrast, the MIT use of the TO4 Por research into new
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy all
requests for machine time for such work, let alone routine Dro ject
calculations of the "production-run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which has
herevofore been reserved for IBM use. In addition to the researech
in golid-state theory, in meteorology and oceanography, which now
depend completely on machine computation and could already use more

time than we can allot them, there are a number of vesearch pPro jects

10
which are basic to the development of new uses for computers, and,
inteed, to the development of computers chemselves, which are alre ad
handicapped by shortage of machine time and limitazion of TO4
capacities. To mention a few:

Programming Development. The Center staff has already

 

o en e SR :". ,: — . R Ga e e e e e 8 > 3 T 1 v e t.‘; -'-: -~
aeve.oped an automatic operator routine which is being adopted by
J-',A - -7(‘! - " N P~ - - - - ot - = -~ - ‘..’
otner 704 users. More general assembly programs: such as the
Linking Segwment Subprogram Loader, whicl combines Fortran, SLP armd

other special codes; COMIT, which enables the 70! to be used on

language translation problems; and LISP, which enables the machine
o handle non-numerical logic, such a8 algebraic and other symbolic
manipulation, are being developed and tested. The work at MIT in
this field, since Whirlwind days, is well known.

ma. ~ r("\ T . 2 - - o . - spres, Mo .99 S - 3
rime—sharing Techniques. We already have a typewriter
connected to the 70%, which works on a time-sharing basis wit ur
( -

regular operator routine, so new programs can be debugged

N
Ci
D O - %
'
¢ o !
3> ® O

~ e . . 1" - . = - —~- oA, A d. = - o e o - ..' = o o g -
Same cime vthat regular cowputations are being carried out on other
-3 b o o L e oy P o vl 1 7 my? g s 2~ VTN P g L e = IR N Y ey v =
problems, for example: The (04 cannot effectively accommoda? moze
P - - = do o v s ® e LS. " i 3 = Py N e d= g 2V - .,
chan one or two Such satelite channels, but the Center staff is nov

\

\
L