’ REPORT
: om
B A CONFERENCE OF

UNIVERSITY COLIPUIING CENTER DIRECTORS.
June 2-4, 1960.
(first draft, July 6)

 

BACKGROUND,

In the past ten years the number of university computing
centers has increased about tenfold. As the directors of these
new facilities have struzgled with the probleme of introducing
new facilities and intellectual disciplines into their schools
it has become clear == to then, if not to others =- that the
tasks of University Computing Centers are spacial ones, different
from those of other computing ceters, ani peculiarly important
for the development of Computer Science in this country, llany
directors came to feel that therc was a need fora conference at
which experienced could be interchanged regarding these tasks
and, “hopefully; a concensus could be reached resarding desirable
methods for their accomplishment,

Advantage was taken of the meeting of many University
Computing Center Directors at an I.B.Ii. seminar at Poughkeepsie,
NeYoo June 22-26, 1959, to form a Committee to investigate
further the advisability of such a conference and, if found
desirable, to orgfhnize one and %e-project its program, The
Committee, in its final form, comphised

Philip HM. Morse, MIT, Chairman
walter Freiberger, Brown Univ, Secretary
Local Plans: Alex Orden, Univ.of Chicago
J.W.T. Youngs, Indiana Unive.
Program: E.L.Buell, iiorcester Poly. Inst.
S.Gorn, Univ. of Pennsylvania
T.A.Kecnan, Univ. of Rochester
Wo.B.Kehl, Univ, of Pittsburg
A.d Perlis, Barnegie Inst, of Tech.
H.R.Rymer, Northwestern Univ.
D.R.Shreve, Oklahoma State Univ,
Wed Viavant, Univ. of Oklahoma
JoHeWells, Georgia State Univ.

thy ye

 

The existence of this report is an indication that sufficient
oe interest was aroused to organize, finance and hold the proposed
Conference,


w 2 =

The American Mathematical Society offered its SponsSor=
ship ef-fthe-conference and made available the staff of its
central office in Providence, R.I., headed by lts Bxecutive
Director, Gordon L.Walker, to handmle the administrative and
financial matters. (iith their efficient aid, the National
Science Foundation was enlisted to finance travel and editorial
‘expenses, the Shoreland Hotel in Chicago, Ill.,, was chmsen for
the location and June 2-4, 1960, for the date of the Conference.
Appendix A is a copy of the proposal sent to the National Science
Foundation, which was approved and thus sreblel ihe Conference
to be held.

ATTENDANCE AND AGLNDA,

A total of 95 participants attended the Conference, 26
from the northeastern states, 14 from the southeast, 31 fron the
middle west, 6 from the northwest, 11 from the southwest, 5 ivom
the west coast, 1 from Canada and 1 from the Netherlands,
Appendix B is a list of these participants. Most of them are in»
charge of @enters with equipment the size of the IRI 650, but most
of the larger Centers were also represented; thus the Conference
was representative of all parts of the country as well as of all
sizes of Computing Centers.

The agenda of the meeting, given in detail in Appendix
Co, provided time for general discussion of the major twgise of
interest as well as opportunity for detailed discussion in
smaller groups. During the first day agreement was reached on
the topics which were to be discussed in the later sessions and
the division of these topics into five groupings, which could be
dealt with in detail by five panels. During the second day the
- Conference split into these five Pancla:

1. Computer-oriented Research (what are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of computing
machines? How are students to be attracted to these areas?)
Panel Chairman, \i,B.Kehl, Univ.of Pittesburg; Cochairman, R.H.
Rymev, Novil western Uuly,

2. Curriculmum and Instruction (what sort of courses are
being offered in Computer Science and what others should be


- 3 ew

offered?) Panel Chairman, A.W.Wymore, Univ.of Arizona; Co-
charman, E.L.Buell, Worcester Polytechnic Inst.

3, Budget and Administration.(how should a Center be
financed and what should be its place in the university admine-
istration?) Panel Chairman, VW.J.Viavant, Univ.of Oklahoma.

4, Computing Service to the University (how should computer
time be albocated to potential users; what sort of priority
system should be set up and how should it be administered?)
Panel Czhairman, T.A.Keenen, Univ.of Rochester; Co-chairman,
D.R.Shreve, Oklahoma State Unive

5. Government Relations (how shiduld the goveriment agencies
be charged for computing time done for government-suppomted
projects at the university?) Panel Chairman, 3.Gorn, Univ. of
Pennsylvania, Co-chairman, A.J.Perlis, Carnegie Inst. of Tech,

On the evening of the second day and on the tiird day
each Parl Chairman reported his Panel's conclusions to the whole
Conference, for further comment, modification and possihle rat-
ification. The Panel reports and a resume of the discui sion at
the final plenary sessions are given in Appendices D to i, inc,

GENERAL, CONCLUSIONS,

Computer Science is a new scientific field and Coiputing
Centers are recent additions to institutes of higher learn ng.
This was the first conference to discuss in detail curriculs
related to computer science, as well as the administrative ind
financial problems of computing centers in universities.
Undourbtedly the greatest value of the meeting was in the inler-
change of ideas between the participants, each learning how
others had solved their problems, Of cdurse there were many
different points of view and many disaggrecements on details,
Some of these points of view are reported in Appendices D to HH,

On a number of basic mwlicy questions, however, there
was virtual unanimity. ©Since these agreed=on conclusions rep=-
resent the combined experience of the majority of the Directors
of University Computing Centers in this country, they are sei
dovm here, in the hope that they will be useful to other


- ll =

Directors, and also to university and governmental authorities
who are involved in creating new and supporting existing Com-
puting Centers. The following two paragraphs summarize the
concensus in general terms; details are given in Appendiges D %o He

High speed computing equipment has already become a
necessary part of the educational and research facilities of
most U.S. univeraities: general knowledge of the use of this
equipment is even now expected of gradmates in nany fields of
science and engineering. Basic techniques of coding for an
individual machine can be tausht an undergraduate in 5 to 8 hours,
Within the next ten years such "Shiney Will become as integral
a part of the educational equipment of a scientific curriculum
as is a chemistry laboratory at present. Because of its poten=
tialities in non-scientific fields (auch as in linguistics) ag
well as in scientific ones, a university computing center should
be administered and financed as an institution=-wide facility, ==
analogous in role to a university library.

Theugh basic machine coding is quickly taught, even to
those with little mathematics, the problems associated with
exploiting fully the potentialities of present and projected
compuvers are difficult and intellectually challenging, are
demanding the help of specialists from a wide variety of fields
and, in turn, are stinulating new developments in many existing
fields, from mathematics to linguistics, Experts in the field
of computing science are in very short supply: the shortage
will remain acute until more colleges train more of them,
Graduate gtudents, from several intellectual disciplines, can
profitably participate in this research, thereby lmproving their

[=

placement potential, even in their initial discipline, Knowledg
already mained justifies t

fd
®

creation of several undergraduate
and graduate courses of instruction, and the granting of degrees
for studies in computer scicnce.

RECONIIENDAT IONS,

a er er

these general ccnclusions, a number of more specific
mendations and suggestions arise as correlaries, The more

uggestion, the lesd complete was the agreement among


«5 =

the conference participants, of course, because of the wide
varidy of educational institutions and of machine installations
which were represented. Nevertheless a majority of conferees
supported the folllowing:
l. Financing, Although a university or college may need
special grant for the initial cost of a computing center, it
h . of tha Center

should be able to support the basic: operati ing costs, (plus
anortization, since present machines must be replaced =m about every
five years) ef-the=insteoiiatéeon from its own budget. Under some
circumstances it may be advisable to sell "second-shift time"
to research projects (or nearby industrial organizations) which
can afford to pays however this sold time should never be more
than half the total available computing time and it must never
interfere with machine time, provided without charge, for edu-
cational purposed and for research by the faculty and students

of the institution. Some university computing centers make no direct
charge for any machine time used by any university faculty member,
student or research project (in these cases no time is granted.

to any outside organization) but recover a portion of their

operating costs from the overhead which is part of the budget

of all OETA and industrially supported research project
at The university. Illany conference partici Lpants felt this was
|

the most desirable mathod of financing the operation (in part dr least)
though it may not yet be ? DAR ible for many institutions.% In

.

cases where direct arges must be made
“re ~ de -— 3 De -- oS “rm, -n d= de 1 on ~ hn

Ord C0 pay, iC is important that the cha
+h J + =a 4 ate 1.1 ~ » 3 oe ™ B= " avr A Y o 1a 3 de Ta :
¢hav vhey include costs of staff and administratio
che Center, amortization charges

tallation, for example, and not just machine rental costs.

OO
HS
(®
wr
c
|
I~
0
9
O
3
(oy
®
hy
ed ®
Q
Nn

forced to sell the majority of its

3 UO survive is an anomaly on a university campus.
ercent of the conferees represented Centers which

sold more than 30 percent of their machine time ). hether the

upport for operating the Center comes from educational

funds, overhead or from long-term grants from industry Y OI ZOV=

ls WT TV FY Be dy se wey gan mia Ini rvae . bl Tor i FY ry am oben aa de pa OS Ivey. avn Al
2INNMeNnGv, CALS Support should enable the Center to carr J On 11S

(Insert here the Q ot the bottom of Fa \P


= om

2. Service to the University. Because of its potential
usefulness to nearly all intellectual activities, all depart-
ments of the university shiuld have easy =ccess to the Computing
Center (as with the university library). In many, asses the
Center has been established as an Be and inter-
school facility, with separate budget and staff, - though some" of
whe staff vewediyihave joint appointments to the center and to
some appropriate department. In these cases the Director of The
Center should report to an appropriate academic authority, such
8 & Dean or Eee not to a purely administrative authority,
uch as a registrar or treasurer, In cases where the Center is
administered rs a department of Applied I'athematics or! Computer
Science, a committee, with representation from other participating
departments, should be set up to advise on policies and procedures
regarding use of the machine. (llany conferees felt that such an

es : & a desideratyw
inter=departmental adgvisory committee is always pS) |

J

0

-

{a

In general it was agegeed that class-=room use of the machine
should have first priority (within certain limits, of course) and
that priorities on research time should not favor the paying

CR

agreed that university computing

possible, on an "open=shop" basis,
nd code their own probijims

and, as far as ls appropriate with the ejuipment, shodd partic-

2 Jw a ram WN wy a i. J. Ae] - wy 1 1s mm da on r A
o - i "a Mt ( ‘a - oD "ao ey >
ipate in running the re on the machine, The task of the
oy de du on PLO daln £ on wn 31 nt] 0 ne: ghey fe b $n are gn 2 rv warn in lean £3 700 wn
Center stvalf ys vACTESIOre, SNDULA NNOT e to encode problems fox
wv - a ot
1 - %- = - ~ 1 Ta - ~- - - a “rn oo ~ - ~ ~ 2 -
machine users, Dur Snoult Pe CGO 1LNSTIMCT ill COAlLNg ana advise
~TY 7 - " fo 3 v f - 3 a. 3
Ol PrOogIrAMIMING 0 maintain a library of svandard programs and
- ” - ~ on Ae on 73 —. -— - - .
Sub cULGLINIeS ana 0 deve. 0p ImMacnine ana programmin techniques
' 1 nalra 1 Xe) 14 affective and ier Bo use
W i} Cl V o we disc ne LAC § Olid} ) Viel WLC CLLCU LL ve alll GZ oi S. Od ie nu “vo
Pon aren YF £° suv dal sl mm 7g wf data ve £3 A $a Lan > 7 Jy a 2
In exchay 15e LOX TAL uge OI vihae macnlineg, vile user's should be
™ NT
ea a De ~ “mn Lr om A ra dala , wal er LL PI LI se ety NERS gy se = Je 1 " - 2 ow wv wa UTS “4 ln ~ Aad No
eXpec ted TO YTeporvy vie: Programs ctaey nave neve 107 ed, 80 Lacey
x 2 A ; .
. >» = -
3 _ - : ar vs cui e .
can be incorporated inte the program libra: being tested and
Q ' mr » - \ 3 a - -y
3 A 3 > A who 1 ! i
Wl SIL UD DY che Cenver stall e LL.M pox iantt €nogah: It should be
’
Jou 1 hn t=14 = ~ ~ i £3 - wm x Po opr a - or wr «™ oN avast “ os a me -ru NT -— ba cr oo. Be - 1 J dace
io 5 or \ C 1 vila ch 13 casi OX 1NsviucC © J. £ - 9 a0 LS LL 5 9 LIP OVA} Lis UCLLY wy
pr ~~ he mash me “79 Ysa tnmnr Ine MY TOT AT 1 4 a TY 111 os rN ers yd ©
EEE OY vhe machine and Keeping che program Lidraly UpP=uld=0ale,

~~ SR HR OR -t inv GLY) Lend ; pa . oo Thy vam $v vr
requires mm high-c@liber staff time and also machine time.

he


« "7 w

5, Instruction, Nearly 90 percent of %he directors atten-
ding the Conference had acadenie appointuents. This is appro=-
priate, for much of the task of the Computing Center in a
tnilversity is related to instruction, either in teaching new
isers the elements of coding, or in advising bow to program
lifficult problems or in teaching or helping to teach courses
r2lated to computer science. The essential? of coding are now
simple onough so that an under-graduate, with little mois than
hipgh=scliooi mathematics can begin to use s rarticular macaine
after 4 Go © hours of lectures (after which he continues t¢
learn ty using, of course). llany Centers give such short cciing
course! three or four times a year, for no acadenic credit, a4
an hou: which does not interfere with regular cksses, Persons
lesir’ng to use the machine are usually required to take such
a course. Other Centers insert the half-dozen lectures on coding
in one or more regular subjects given for crelit, such as a
sourse on general principles of programming for all machines, or
a course in applied mathematics, or a beginning course in theore
etical science or engineering any course in which the student
nny need to use the computer),

Subjects, given for credit, which are being taught by staff
nembers of some Centers, are:

Introduction to Digltal Computation - Principles of
brogramming and of machine structure. Turing machines and =
other logical foundations, A freshman or sohhomore subject.

~~ Advanced Course in Programning - lachine languages,
theory of compilers, ‘information processing, simulation, ete,
A senior or graduate svhieet.
Toeory of Auvomasa = Mashing L2PR183, problem S01Ving,
game playing, ete. A graduate subject.
_ llachine Design - Components, logzizal design, switching
theory, ete. A graduate subject,
relate . vo ; some : a
Other, subjects, == which o Center staffs are contributing new
ideas and points of view, include
Appligl) Mathematics
Numerical Analysis
Information Theory

Operations Research
Systems Analysis

Students may be attracted to Computer Science by taking one or
more of these courses; their further traingng in the field can


8
Qo
¢

Le supported financially if the Center has funds to support a

A

A8 To whether the Computation Center should become a
2rtment of Computer Science, there was 00 conceusus among
he conferees. One university will soon have. such a Department,
in some others it wes, a part of a Department of Applied Mathe
matics. Some ether Directors believe that the sublact will

! a department status would 58" ap ropriate.
However, many felt that the contact of the computer wa: with so

Se
0)
o
03

many intellectual disciplines that the Center should cor tinue to
be inter—-departmental, SO that students could be drawn from and
faculty appoi 1 €¢ made jointly With, several departments,
etails of these recommendations, and a resume of toe
discussions regarding them, are to be found in Appendices D vo H,

Te ATR es wa) ade go 2 £8 rm wey few om tee gm A= de uo ~ > PD 8
(paragraph LO De luserved at the bot om Or page 5)

mm y — ue -? wo _— 7 q -— - Rw ’ Se ow od - Le > oe Qu > -
ihe previous paragraph implies that an institution should

“
Lon larger than its academic

o- - a - WW NN YN om Lo - by | Pe od
nov avtempt ©O0 Support an insvallati
- »~ ~ .y Io "my ach ™ Po. "0 LY ~~ dom = Th “0 ~ tr +h ~~ ™ ~ ) 2 mn Fe ™ 1 N 7 Be f=14 “1 ~
neeas wed) oCL00LS nave started with © WACHLIC about the gize
- ~ -— wr pe ” # > - 2
on  - ole IH kK _— AN ae - nS = w on oY rn AY ” 7 1 oy  -
and speed of an IBM Gf 0, requi: ing a staf OL One or two fulle=time
oe Vane pn +3 . yn de 3 wna bn on df 4 { we 3
9s CWO OT varee part-time pe £s0ns, Cosi LIE bevween $50,000 and
w uw rr v
¢hn \ ke . be FAT 75 2 vn dhe ! "sy en]A — AY oF 3 wv oe d= en] on du o2 wien ay
» 1.00, 000 year TO operate, though even this installation may be
le \
too larere initialilr fan me acchonle A~ larrer Conta wi =
WOU ACLS vedi VLALLY LOI >0lle SChools. 3 LEAL ISCL UBT e: g WALLA Q
pe — a - “ - =
ra lr ot ram on ry ks ~NN \ i A . » > / A o 3 hed - ,
WACILLIC LiKE The 1H { U0 se LLCS, Stal Or © TO 12 aL ul Le=Tlle anda
. A
rs
> ; Ly ~~ n TE “Ff CONN ANN 2 aa \
abe LULU U LP U=01me PCIEONSE q W.L ULL, DUQAQS re Vv OL cz Q0 os VUU CO UO 500 5 000
4 ¢ i+ “. v
FA
YZ ona 3 son on Vom oor am 9 Yom men de RTT 2 rnd | a a a x
per year, should be undertaken only wn acultcy experience is
—0N Ey A de “em. 3 Se & L oy fe 3 wen 1 ww ~*~ Tl a al - ~ rs de oo an "1 ~ 0 - 3
ready Co use 1lt effective Ly olld Wien tne budget can be ¢ Iforded,


ww OQ

FUTURE PLANS

At the final plenary session it was voted That the
Committee, listed on page 1 of this report, continue in exis-
tence, to prepare a Report of This Conference, to collect and
exchange curricula of courses given lin Computer Science, %0
act as a clearing house for suggestions and problems related
to University Computing Centers and to arrange for further
Conferences of this sort in the future, if and when the occasion
warrants it.


