October 25, 1954

Professor P. M, I J
Room 6=109

Dear Professor Morse:
In accordance with the finenciel discussions held at our cone

ference on October 29, I am enclosing a copy of a report entitled
SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL SERVICES OPERATION which cowers the fiseal

period 1063-1954, Among other things, this report gives a breake

down of the income obtained from various customers in three prine
cipal categories:

l, Administrative offices,
2¢ DIC and institute research,
J» Non=M.I+T+« customers.

I think this summery is of interest since it provides an
indication of the distribution of the services offered by this office;
furthermore, it shoudd serve as a basis for predicting what may hapren
during the forthcoming fiscal periods You will notice that the
Machine Computation Committee contract (DIC 6915) expended $1523.16
whereas the Operations Research contract expended $1192.15 during this
periods In a sense, these amounts are rather misleading because they
give no indications of the amount of free time which was (iven to both
of these groups. To shed some light on this matter, I have prepared
a second report entitled FREE TIME ANALYSIS, whith indicates the CPC
time which has been given to various groups free of charges That is
to say, it does not indicate the labor and persunnel time which has
been (piven free of charge to these grohps. The reason is, of course,
that he CPC time is the most valuable since it costs $15 a hour. I
would like, therefore, to have included similar figures for free labor
end personnel time. At the moment, it does not appear that the infore
mation this would relay would Justify the effort required to get this
date from the ledger. Perhaps succeeding reports of this type will
give a brealtdown of machine time, personnel time, and materials.

At any rate, from these two reports we may make the following


Th SE OED LAT SP ”

 

 

 

Professor Pe. Ms Morse (2) October 25, 1954

tabulation:
Paid Free
Services Services

Machine Computation Committee DIC 6916 $1623.16
$7462.50

Operations Research Contract DIC 7126 $1192.15

which e¢learly indicates the relative magnitude of free and paid services
incurred during this period. This free-time analysis actually covers

the period Jemvery @1, 1953 through AugmsdEsl, 1954.
LAA | bo Xan :

well Naoselivity oF
I am now preparing some figures which will serve as estimates of
probable expenditures incurred by your two contracts during the next
fiscal period. Ve must bear in mind, however, that a great deal of work
was abserbed by the Air Force contract which is no longer available, and
therefore expenditures on the remaining contracts will of necessity be
higher, I shall discuss these latter matters with you at our next

meeting.

Sincerely yours,

Fo Me Verzuh
Director

FilV:nb
Enclosures

Hy TRE PETA


