M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER

To: Dean Francis Bitter Date: June 26, 1959
From: Professor Philip M. Morse

Subject: President's Report

The Computation Center has completed its second year
of activity using the IBM 704 computer donated and maintained by
the International Business Machines Corporation. During the year
some 600 problems were active on the machine. These problems were
representative of many fields of research such as physies, linquistics,
and engineering. The problems were programmed and coded by
graduate students and staff from M.I.T, and from the twenty-eight
cooperating colleges and universities in New England.

 

Usage of The machine has grown to the extent that nearly
all of the available time on the computer is being used. Because
of this and because of intrinsic interest in machine utilization;
several procedures have been developed by the Center staff to male
the operation of the machine more efficient. Primarily these
steps have consisted of organizing computer operations so that most
frequently used programs are read from magnetic tape as well as
eliminating manual intervention for non-critical thinking. Hence
time wasted is minimized in running any given problem. Other
improvements have been the development of various utility programs
which have facilitated the usage of the Fortran II programming
system. The Fortran system, which is used to prepare about one-half
of the problems for the machine, has definitely made it easier for
problems to be prepared for the machines.


-2w

Among other 270 J60t0 the staff of the ‘Programming ih
Research Group at the Center has actively assisted the R LE
Language Translation Project in the ‘development, programming, 2.
and coding of the COMIT compiler-interpreter which, in res
defines a manipulating language for the purposes of linquistic
study and machine translation. In addition, the Center has lent
support to other groups such as the Artificial Intelligence
Project which has made great strides in the development of the
LISP programming language. The LISP language is designed to
facilitate the processing. of symbolic information, as opposed to
‘numeric information. It will be applied to problems such as i
symbolic differentiation and integration and the manipulation of
formal proofs in symbolic logic and related areas. At present,
effort is being devoted to arrange for multi-program time-sharing
operation of the computer. The latter feature should allow the
development of new techniques of machine utilization which as yet
are largely unexplored but which are becoming urgently desirable
as faster machines are built. More extensive descriptions of these
activities are given in the semi-annual progress ‘reports of the
Center,

The Center also has parbtetpated’ in educational activities
at both M.I.T. and New England institutions. In addition to the
special two-week programming course which is given in August for
students and faculty, there have been many instances in which the
Center has been used as a laboratory for the testing of classroom
coding exercises.


