THE EDUCATIONAL CONCEPT OF
COMPUTERS AS A HREW TOOL

by

C. W. Adems and F. MN. Verzuh
Messachusetts Institute of Technology

Paper presented at the Conference
on Training Personnel for the Computing
Machine Field at Wayne University

pe
Jurae

Juiy—23, 1954

not released for publication, in whole or

The content of this paper is
n from the author.

in part, without written permissic


THE EDUCATIONAL CONCEPT OF COMPUTERS AS A NEW TOOL

Introduction

Each year there is an increasingly large number of analog and
digital computers available for general use. Since these computers command
the attention of more people each year, the need for introducing the
principles of computers as a new tool in Science and Engineering curricula
is correspondingly increased. However, the best method for acquainting the
student with this new teol is not as evident.

- Each of us has learned at some time or other that the slide rule is
a very useful aid to the college student. As & matter of fact, some people
still consider 2 slide rule to be an indispensible aid in their work. I am
certain that all of us were pleased to learn how much more rapidly and accu-
rately we could effect multiplication, division and transcendental operations
with a slide rule. The following question naturally arises: When should we
teach students the use of the slide rule? Obviously, if it is too soon in
their educational training, they may never learn to multiply or divide. Based
on your individual personal experience, each of you can answsr the question
concerning the slide rule.

The next question which naturally arises is: * When and how should
we teach students the principles of computers? Again, each of you has an
answer to this question. Certainly, all the answers will not be the same --
although they may be equally correct. M.I.T.'s answer to this question is
illustrated in Figure 1 which lists the graduate subjects offered im the field
of automatic computation.

The purpose of this paper is not to describe the entire package of
subjects, but rather, to discuss the undergraduate subject: MACHINE-AIDED
ANALYSIS. In this subject a determined effort is made to portray computers
in their true light -- not as mythical brains, but as an effective tool to be

used by the undergraduste in his particular field both in school and later in
industry.

Need for Undergraduate Computer Training
The first packege of graduate subjects in computation was offered

at M.I.T. in 1847. Although these subjects were most effective, it soon
became apparent that they hed one general defect: they were graduate subjects


9-1-€

83 FNOITD
 SupydI TAs

89S °9

 

9-1-€

   

€3 FROITD
Suyqol TAS

L9S°9

 

  
   

   
  

-uog3e3ndmo) OFIBWOINY UF gaoefqng JO

9-0-€ S-E-1
£I0318I0GUT
uot siInduwo)

OTuoI} 0TH
8€G°9

    

      
    

swol eis
vled-pesind

vS°9

9-2-¢€ 6-0-€

SOT BHOUIBH
pot Tddy

sjeiisuy
TBO J JOWNN

IIv K

  

Jo SPOYIeN
6c NW

 

9-0-€

g18LATBUY

pPOpPTE~OUTYIBH |
. G2°9

 

 

CE ET CS —

ofexosd V

       

| uoypzsandmO)

 
   

9-0-8

  

Soteuy
g9€S8 "9

 

6-0-€

  

gisAeuy
T8oTIOWNn)y

gig’ G

 

(e38npBIdIopun)
WIL
Tied

 

ee TIVIRGR0D DILVIOIOY OL GALVTIH AILORYIA

groarans ‘I "I

+1 FVADIA

Joanduod

1525370

 

Jo3ndud)d

152 53%d
ces’ 9


EES
<3

which are not generally available to theundergraduate. It soon became apparent
that our graduating seniors were entering certain industrial fields with little
or no knowledge of computing devices which were in current use in their field.
Ags a consequence, some of these graduates developed a "fear of
compliers’ based on a combination of personal | ignorance of the capabilities
of computers ani an erroneous conception of computers as "mythical brains."
This latter impression is still fostered by the popular press and a few
senss tionalists in the field. : )
It is obvious that such misconceptions must be corrected at the
undergraduate level and the following ideas implanted:

1. Present-day academic, research, and professional horizons are
expanding very rapdily--computing devices are an essential
tool which sllow the worker to complete his task in the least
amount of time available.

2. Certein "older techniques” - graphical methods of problem
Solution, ete., - are fine techniques to be acquainted with.
However, many of these are actually outmoded by the availability
of present-day computers.

3. Students must learn to think in terms of the capabilities of
present-day and future computers. The language of computers
is becoming increasingly important to everyone.

4. The principles of computers and their effective application
is actuslly very simple -- provided it is presented properly.

5. Computers are not a panacea for all difficult and troublesome
problems. Learn and realize their respective limitations.

It is quite &pparent that the above ideas must be taught to the student. The
next question is: How can this teaching best be done?

Method of Teaching MACHINE-AIDED ANALYSIS
With the ebove needs of the undergraduate computer training program
in mind, the following preliminary outline of the subject was made in 1953:

Preliminary Outline

1. A survey of the types of mathematical problems which arise in
engineering analysis,

2. A survey of the available computing techniques and aids which
are capable of solving these problems,

3. A brief introduction to numerical anslysis,

4. Solution of ordinary differentiesl equations with given initial
conditions--analog and digital metaods of solution,


rT NRE Speen CC CL

5. Machine solution of simultaneous linear algebraic equations,

6. Solution of partial differential equations om computing equipment,
7. A study of machines and components: REAC, CPC, and WWI,

8. Application of computers to practical probleas,

9. Evaluation of available computing equipment.

Needless to say, this outline proved to be a rather smbitious undertaking.
Particularly, when one considers that 3-hour subject ( offered on a semester
basis) contains only 43 lecture hours.

It was immedietely apparent that this outline had to be curtailed
in some manner. One solution was to delimit the list of available computers
to the following types:

1. The desk calculators: Friden, Marchant and Monroe,
2. The REAC Analog Computer,

3. The IPM Card Programmed Calculator (CPC)

4. The Whiriwind Computer -- Summer Session version,
5. Other Computers in general.

Admittedly, this shortened the task appreciably; however, it was still a
large assignment.

Figure 2 illustrates a block diagram of the subject material which
immediately raises another question: What is the proper sequence to present
the material in the classroon? Should a "horizontal line" attack be used, i.e.,
to study all five clesses of problems on a particulier mechine? Perhaps &
"vertical" approach should be used? Maybe 2 "sig-zag" approach should be used?
Fortunately or unfortunately as the case may be, time did not perait a thorough
study of the program shown in Figure 2. Therefore, "vertical line" of
presentation was employed as described in succeeding sections.


gz 9 10efqng oy3 JO USITOJ FO WEIIVTQ F201d °'Z TUNDIA

Joindeo)

ANIATEIHA

J03BINITLD
peEuEB 130d

I03BTNOT8D
Heeq

          

          

     

          

         

    

     

suorzenby Sue TqOoZd guofIenby
ot3ewql FIV eTIueIeIITd enysvA TegIueIe IITA 018IqeITY
1953 38d Axepunog AIBUTPIO Snoeus) THES

oduis

SISATTVNV GEAIV-ENIHOVR 68°9


ihe
Application of Actual Computers

It was decided that the solution of the same simple
differential equation:

H+ y2=1 with y(0) = 0 Spe

on all four types of calculators: desk calculator, REAC, CPC,
and Whirlwind would be appropriate, Since the solution of this equa-. ...
tion: dy 12

y-= "Tash X -2-

is an analytic function which may be evaluated with great accuracy,
1t served to provide a good basis for observing the advantages and
limitations of various computers.

Every student (either individually or in pairs) was allowed
to solve this problem on each of the four computers in specilally-
‘arranged laboratory sessions. The entire work: preparation of
‘machine diagrams, programming, machine set-up, a:..d machine solution
was effected by the student. Since the subject covered numerical
analysis in a very preliminary fashion, the student was also pro-
vided with certain approximation formulae which were required on
the digital machines.

Generally speaking, the laboratory sessions were highly
satisfactory as they provided the student with a firm understanding
of the exact manner in which he had to instruct the computer to
perform his task. He soon learned that the computer did not "think"--
was not a brain -- but 2 tool which he could use quite effectively.

General Level of the Subject

This subject did not serve as a survey of all existing
computers. Although a number of lectures were presented which il-
lustrated most available commercial computers by means of lantern
slides, no pretense was made of evaluating the computers. Certainly,
no attempt was made to create a team of "professional programmers.”
Rather, the men were taught the fundamental prindple of operation
of the four computers. If anything, a deliberate effort was made
to emphasize the common sin prevalent among professional programmers:
"... spending hours rewriting programs which eliminate a single order,


and thereby saving 100 microseconds of machine time."

= The student obtained a keen sense of appreciation of
the ease of setting up a special analog machine, such as REAC, to
solve an ordinary differential equation. He learned the important
distinction between externally-programmed computers, e.g. CPC,
and internally-stored-programmed computers, such as Whirlwind.
Finally, he learned th:.t the outward characteristics of these
calculators could be changed by the operator. Specifically, the
CPC can act as:

1. A 10-diglt FIXED decimal calcula®or,
2. A 12-digit FIXED decimal calculator,
3. An 8-digit FLOATING decimal calculator,
4, A 13-digit FLOATING decimal calculator

by the mere insertion of another set of control boards. Similarly,
the Whirlwind computer may behave as three different types of
computers depending upon the type of conversion programs and service
routines which are employed.

Conclusion .

This paper describes the need for undergraduate training
in the application of computing devices. Some attempt is made to
illustrate the effect that the advent of generally-avallable computers
will have on an undergraduate program. The particular method of
subject presentation employed at M.I.T. is described. In addition,
some mention is made of the actual subject material covered, and
the general level of the subject 1s emphasized, Specific mention
is made of the self-service, student use of the four types of
calculators which was made during the term. Finally, the students
were given an indication of the types of problems which can be ef-
fectively handled by computing devices.

Acknowledgement

The teaching efforts described in this paper represent the
efforts of the following individuals: C. W. Adams, R. C. Booton,


=8=

WH. K. Linvill, R. E. Scott, and F. M. Verzuh. Since this subject
was taught for the first time last fall, it was extremely helpful
to have a large staff participating on a part-time basis.

FF. M. Verzuh
June 23, 1954


