will be used by these subprograms.

Programmers who have punched
output from these subprograms in the past and subsequently

punched golumn one with a 7 and 9 punch will have to obtain
the version now in existence from the open files in Room 26-058
and include it with their binary decks to avoid the new library

version., Regular binary tapes with version 1 are compatible
with the new (TSB),

B. (I0H) This subprogram has been recoded for more
accurate conversions with the result that some answers may be
slightly different. A new format will be added called the G
format, If the prefix of a word is zero the variable will be
printed according to an I format, otherwise according to an E
format, (This should be useful for intermixed integers and
floating=-point numbers.) The form for the G format is GW.d
where W is the field width and d is the number of decimal places
to be printed, if any, For example,

I =2
PI = 3,141593
PRINT = 2L, PI
2 FORMAT (2G15.7)

would produce
@ 2 @ 0.3141593E+01

C. Double Precision and Complex Arithmetic Routines have
been revised and new copies of these FMS subprograms may be

\ obtained from the open files in Room 26-058.

 

V. Restrictions

FMS programs which load beyond (70203), will be too large
for the new system if not using Debug., If Debug is being used,
the loading must be below 62032 octal. Programmers may get
around this restriction by putting variables in C{MMPN storage.
With the present FMS version programs can  load up to (70562)g.

| VI. Non-1IBM Changes

. SETUP All main programs which do not include .SETUP
in their transfer vector must be recompiled. The locations to
which (F2PM) traps have been altered and the initialization for
the interval time that will be used to stop programs that exceed
the maximum time estimate on the I.D. card has been added to
+SETUP,

(STH), (SPH), (SCH) These subprograms have been combined
so the combination is smaller than the original (SCH), (SPH),
and (SCH) package. Punched output will not be written in the
BCD mode on logical 3 or B4, The estimates on the I.D. card
for printed and punched output will remain unchanged, i.e., all
output from PUNCH statements should be included with the estimate

3=