;l,;*ff ' M.I.T. Computation Center Page 6 of 10

- Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE FROGRAMMER

DESCRIPTION

There are several grades of programmers in an electronic data processing imstallaotion.
Th@\highest or Grade I programmer is referred to as a senior or professional programmer.
This person may progranm the most difficult problems or he may formulate block diagrams
‘and flow charts from which others may write the instzuctions or machine code. The
lower or second-grade position is usually refereed to as a ‘programmer''. The job

description for programmer is the same as for the prefessional programmer except for
the degree of competence,

A third=-grade level of programmer may be called z ''trainee programmer ov coder’ .

This person usually works under the direct supervision of a programmer or a professiocnal
programmer, respectively. He is expected to write the actual machine instruction Ior

2 progvam from the block diagram preparad by the professional programmer

DUTIES

1. Assists in the preparation of the methematical statement or systems study of the
overall problem. s

-2. Prepares the logical diagrsms of the proposed EDFM procedure.

3, Assists in the review of the logic ~- this involves a careful study of present and
proposed procedures with all those currently involved in the present operation.

4, Prepavres a machine block diagram which is a statement of the solution of the
approved logical diagram expressed in machine language.

5., @Qodes the procedures in the machine language. In effect, expresses the solution
of the problem in the particular machine language under congideration.

6. Prepares a test solution which is used in checking the program on an EDFM maching.,
7. Poerforms the actual machine testing of the EDPM program on the machine.

8. Prepaves a complete write-up of the problem -~ including machine operating
instructions, a list of machine sitop codes, and an explicii set of imstructions
for emergency operaticns.

QUALIFICATIONS

1. Educational Background: high school education or egquivalent. Since programming
is a precise and logical operstion, a college education and a knowledge of
mathenatics is desirable; However, it is not essentisl. EAM cxperience is helpful
but not esseatizl.

2. Hatuzal Ability and Aptitude: a number of aptitude tests heve been developed to
measure the lildibood of sucesss in the programming fleld. A suitable gptitude
test will he used to select candidater in this field.