OMA

—

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Reszarch: Research on Digital Computer Operation
Eo and Utilization--Investigation into
the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis ;
and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science, |
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further Support is advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organlzing what

should be one of the most fruitful centers for research related to

the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing |
one of its 704 machines, maintained and equipped with appropriate |
auxillary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part |
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the |
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
55 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research In the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix & for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
25 institutions have indicated thelr interest in participating and
have appolnted faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the regearch
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM 1s providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and business, A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine


2D

operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and social sciences and in engineering.

It 1s appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senlor staff for sueh a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming: others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the
participating colleges would Join it for a semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full-time at the Center.

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. Ve believe that a contribution of
about $100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which willl energize and take the lead in the re-
search carried on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges. Ve list later in this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects will develop naturally from these and
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center.

The project would not start at full strength. The 704 will
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
Installation, Ve estimate that a total budget of 60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, 90,000 for 1957-58 and $100, 000
for 1958-59. Details are given later in this proposal, At the
beginning of 1959 the program should be re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial support .
rom both agencles, an equal share from each, Ve believe the work
can be divided so that separate contracts can be written. Some of
the proposed taske would be different, though some of the broader
Yields of investlg TUion would overlap. Ye would hope that we could

ww No
!

—————————— a ——————————————————————————————


- =

put out a combined progress report. In some published papers,
credit could be given to one organization alone; ijn others, credl%
would go to both. Bookkeeping would be somewhat more complicated,
but since most of the expense would be for salaries, little for
permanent equipment, this could be done. It probably would be
necessary Uo have the usual government overhead for both contracts.

The proposed budget asked of each agency for 1956-57 is
given below. The corresponding amounts for the following two years

HouAs be $45,000 for 1957-58 and $50,000 for 1958-59, as indicated
above.

Proposed Research; Possible Initial Directions of Investigation:

i. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input
janguages; the possibilities of coding directly. in mathematical,
logical or business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and automatic
error analysis. .

He Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
jarly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more general
expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomlals sums for £imulating
standard functions by a common block of instructions but small
geparate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and methods of
automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial plus
Richardson extrapolation or other means,

nL. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques
for communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible improve-
ments in input-output equipment.


He

6. Investigation of new techniques and applications of
linear programming, including procedures analogous to the methods
of steepest descent developed by Hestenes and Stiefel for the
solution of linear equations.

7. Computations of interest in pure mathematics:

(a) Character table of selected characters of the
symmetric group.

(b) Checking congruences of interest in algebraic
number theory.

(¢) Further extension of factor tables and prime
number lists past 1012 via the sieve of Erastosthenes,
utilizing, say, Corbatdé's new factoring program.

(d) Coding of Tarski's decision method for elementary |
algebra and geometry. Tarski has shown that ele- |
mentary algebra and geometry can be decided by a |
computer. To implement this would be a task of |
considerable magnitude, but it would illustrate the
logical capabilities of a computer to a degree not
heretofore done.

operation and logging. Thess will be investigated as an integral

i
8. Techniques for achleving fully automatic computer
part of the computing system. |

|


5

Facllities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TOU
lectronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
Sachins rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated by

~ The Type 70% EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and en?
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel: Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Associated with

Ea ———————————E———————E I E—E—,———_————— a EE a n————

the Project |

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with

computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first Bush
differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his
Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Reasearch" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about a hundred Journal articles, many of which give re-
sults obtained from machine computation. For further blographic
detalls, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerlcal analysis in the Mathematics Department at MIT
since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1940. He
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers”
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis” (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research Journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group 8lince July 1955 and who will head the programming research


-O=

group in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in |
Electrical Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate
work in Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his
doctor's thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience

in the use of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment
and with Whirlwind I. His salary will be charged to the Project.

Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 1946, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1940.
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the
utilization of various analogue computing equipment--differential
analyzers, etc., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 704. He received
a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S, degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Se.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project.

-— eS nif nae , =

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center (see Appendix A) will be
available for advice and cooperation. From time to time, if one
of them can supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may
be charged to the Project.

These will include some former members of the Whirlwind
programming research group, such as Frank Helwig and Sheldon Best,
and others. Some of the best of the IBM research assistants at the
Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate periods, at
full time, after they have finished thelr graduate work and relinquished
their assistantshipe. -


T=

Budget for 1956-1957

(ONR and NSF combined, 1/2 to pe charged to each)

Salaries
Fractions of Salaries of Senior Scientists

Principal Investigator (8 per cent of
$12,500)

Other Faculty Members
(1/3 of £9,000 and 1/3 of £7,500)

Salaries of Full-time Staff

5 Senior Investigators (at 27,500)

¢ Junior Investigators (at 86,000)

1 Secretary-Typist (at $3,000)

1 Technician (computer, programmer)

Total Salary

Overhead (see note at end or budget)
Permanent Equipment

gem computers, special input equipment,
ete.

Expendable Equipment
Travel
Publication Costs

Total Yearly Budget

g 2,000

5,500

22,500
12,000
3,000
5,000
$50,000
20,000

6,000
1,000
2,000

1,000
#80, 000

See note on next page)


“85

Since the staff will be acquired in 1956, some of them
being transferred from other projects between July and December

1956, expenditures for the first year 1956-1957 will be about
3/% of the above yearly estimate. $60,000.

One half of this contributed by ONR 830,000
Requested for year beginning July 1, 1956.

Note on Overhead: The overhead percentage is based on previous

experience, t may differ somewhat from this when charges are
computed.


EY

lL. I. '. MACHINE COMPUTATION COMMITTEE

p M, Morse >» Chairman
lel H. Caldwell} ios

eT Bn Jeshnac) Bigot oy Engineering
Jay W. Forrester
rof. Francis B. Hildebrang Pas rig8l Engineering

Je Pror. James B, Reswick Mechanical Engineering

PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITIES AND INSTITUTE REPRESENTATIVES

Bates College, Prof. Karl S. Woodcock, Head, De artment of
Bennington College, President Frederick lind Physics
Boston College, Rev. William G. Gulndon, Head, Department of Physics
Boston University, Dean Duncan E. Macdonald, Graduate School
Bowdoin College, Prof. Reinhard L. Korgen, Dept. of Mathematics
Brandeis University, Prof. David Falkoff, Dept. of Physics
Brown Unilversity, Prof. William Prager, Chairman, Physical Sciences Coun,
Dartmouth College, Prof. John McCarthy, Dept. of Math. and Astronomy
Harvard Unlversity, Prof. Guy H. Orcutt, Dept. of Economics
Middlebury College, Dean John G. Bowker, Prof. of Mathematics
Northeastern University, Prof. Martin W. Essigmann, Head, Dept. of E.E.
Tufts University, Dean Leonard C. Mead, Graduate School

f Connecticut, Prof. Ralph J. Kochenberger, Dept. of Engineering
Ove. of Matra. Dean Ashley 5. Cawpbell, Colless of Technology
Unive. of Malne, Prof. John H. Karlson, Dept. of Elec. Eng.
Univ. of Vande Prof. Robert B. Davis, Dept. of Mathematics

Univ. n - ; Sp To > al 0 Wis Nn ——nen
Univ. of By or Prof. Ivan R. Hershner, Chairman, Dept. of Math.
Univ. © a Prof. Janet Guernsey, Dept. of Physics

Wellesley Col sity Prof. Hing Tong, Dept. of Mathematics

Wesleyan Unlver ’ Donald E. Richmond, Chairman, Dept. of Math.

Williams College, Prot, Richard N. Cobb, Dept. of Math.

+e
Prot.

+c +» IN C Insc. ® .
Worcester De A. J. J. van Woerkum, Dept. of Astronomy
" 1 - 8 1 9 J v d
Yale Unlverx .


