Hinutes of the Third Meeting of ths ;
Committee on Machine Methods of Coumputation -2

(1) Salzer. He nss teken his written examination, but not
his oral preliminary. A supervisory committee (Kopal, Hszen,
Linvill) has been appointed. Professor Brown is to consult as
to whether it would be more spproprizte to have Professor Thomas
of the Mathem&tlcs Department on the coumittee, instead of Pro-
fessor Hazen, If this is not desirable, no change is to be made
here, '

(2) Ham. His supervisory committee is yet to bpe zppointed.
It was suggested that Professor Feshbuch might be a suitable
member of this committee. Professor Brown wilill advise us later.

(3) Carrus has not yet takenhls written qualifying exsminae
tiony he will probably teke it in February. It was suggested
that the usual Electrical Engineering written exawination be
modified in his case to de~emphasize power uwachinery, magnetic
circuits, and electricel measureuents, &nd tnut Professors Lin
and Relssner arrange to provide questions for one of the tinree
toree=hour examinations o be given in the subjects of courses
351, 352 and M39, to be substituted instead of the exam on the
the taree subjects to be de~emphasized. In uaddition, Professors
Feshbach and iMorse will help in writing questions on Physics for
this part of the examination. Professor Brown is to notify the
four Committee members involved as to deadline dates on taese
guestions.,

(4) Booton is intending to take tne regular blectrlcal Erni-
gineering written examination, although Professor Brown will ask
him whether he would prefer to tuke the sawe examination as 1is
planned for Carrus. |

(5) Hiss Fox has droppéd ner registration for tne present,
but will, it is hoped return next year., - Presumably, she would
take the regular Matnematics qualifying written.

(6) Dolansky may &lso be & suitable person to take the ex-
emination prepuared for Carrus, but any action will awzit Pro-
fessor Brown's word in the matter.

(7) Verzuh. This case is to be taken up again next time,
since it involives certaln fundamental policies which need more
detaeiled consideration. Professor Brown will meet with the Com-
mittee next Wednesday at 10:00 4. K,