2. The In! Punched-Card Section,

3. The ﬁend Coupntin; Group (which oeployed desk calculators
for computational purposes).

During the war years 1942—45, the staff of the Center was increesed
to ’approxinetely 50 people. Because of the large vole-e of war-tine.
amputations}. activity (3—shiit operetion. etc.), this self supporting
type at operation resulted in the creation of s financial reserve fund
of over $40,000. '

. Professor 8. H. esldrell returned fro- his me nasal-est in 1045
end egain aseuned his for-er position as active Director of the Center.
The poet-ear years 1946-47 had a deraatetinz effect on the previously-4
nentioned financial reserve. The value of coeputntionel work was sharply
curteiled during this period, but the operetinc stuff of the Center was
not Interielly reduced. As I consequence, the two-year period 1918—49
wero very trying years fun the finsnoiel standpoint; end during thie
period. the 1H Group end the Band Cupnting Group were eeperated free the
Center.

In leroh, 1948, I‘. ll. Vernuh was placed in cherge of the punched—
card m. After a period of reorganiutions it appeared thst the loss
of one of the principal clients of the Inn services, the A. 1). Little
Coupeny, would create s serious operating deficit in the punched-cord
section. As I. result. a decision was node to discontinue the punched-card
section, and a letter terninsting the existing IBII machine rentsl contract
wee sent to the m Corp. in Key. 1349. Fortunately, nr. Stretton learned
of the situation in tine to prevent dissolution of the pup. and et his
direction, the nan punched—card fecility was reactivated on July 1, 1949. and
the group began operation es s sepnrete conputing feoility under n.1.c.
sponsorship. Pinelly, on my 1. 1950, the Adniniatretinn set up the in!
group es en Adeinistretiwe Office - the Office 02 Statistical Services.

It also heca-e apparent that the original G—lnteu‘ator Differential
Anslyner was no longer required st I.l.'l'. , and consequently it wea pre-
sented to Vsyno University in July, 1949 where it is still in operation.
Early in 1949 the Inﬂuential Analyser Group (the last renaming section
of the Center 01 Analysis) was ebout to he dissolved because of finanoisl
difficulties. Fortunately, in June. 1949, u contract was initiated with the
u. 8. Air Forces which provided tho neceoenry financial assistance needed
to continue its operation. In July. 1949, 1'. II. Versuh was else placed in
in chem-go of the RDA group and was faced with the prohln of hiring a new
operating staff. (The for-er group of lemurs. J. 1.. c. 1.32. n. lornsh,
G. Innstedt, Ii. Coate, etc. had been released.)

A new open-sting staff consisting of Messrs. J. l. line, and ii. 48.
Groasinon were hired and trained, and the new EDA group consisting of
Professor Caldwell, Messrs. ll. Forbes. L. 3. Frost, J. E. Goos, a. I.
Grossieen. J. I. Hen, F. E. Von-nah and lines 3. Collins, 5. Cause}, end
3. Tell experienced an effective your which resulted in the following I310!-
additions to the RDA: