or. cal-r. Line;—

 

 

 

 

Assistant Provost “ » . ., .~ .- j 7
8m 3-2“; "31-?! < . - .A « ~

bear burl:

 

 

4 'j‘I'mvsorry I‘miesed rouvthia' week,“beveause ‘lfi‘m
really_ getting. upset about the progresniotr‘the. gent

 

' , , g in the first place; weaskedim‘ .to 'startdeli‘vory',
of some of the peripheral equipment ahead’ot time, because: ‘
we wanted'to use it target routines and cards worked up »
before the 7011 got here. V (We talked this over with realest,

‘ spring and said then we would need two hays-tron at the pinch;
one bayun’ext' to Frank's place in Building 20, to set up the .

machines, to work with the rest of. Frank's people and ’
machines.) ' g . 1 ,_ "

Well, the machines are here and more are coming
next week! And there was hardly space to get them out or
the rain! If IBM asks whether we are. now us them after
they bust a gut getting them here, we'll have 0 say no.
In the meantime. of the three bays next. to Frank Verzuh,
one is given to the Teohnigue for a months. two to AFRO'I‘C
and part of the one eyon , as far as anyone can see. is a
coffee room for the Janitors! And we can't even get the

one “Day after Technique is through with it! What do I say
to mm

On the other point, the air conditioning. I want
to let you know that I am no longer worrying about its
additional cost since I got the figures. We can rave, in
the case of the air conditioning that 1/3 or its coat
(50,000 out or the total 160.0005 is caused by architect's
requirements which we didn't care about in the first place.
In addition, for the 160,000 we are not getting the con—
ditioning we need to use the machines for education (noise,
again) so we are going to have to demand more pressure, even
if it costs more money--otherwise we can't use the 70% for
classes. The need for the additional pressure comes entirely


Dr. Carl 1:. nee ’ ' . V .2. " ' t _ ,Octoper' 5.1956

from the long ducts, union come from the architect's “emands
agein.v It the orchitecta can demand 50.000 extru Juat for
prettinepa, I feel we can demand 20.000 extra Just to make
the equipment usefull ' ' -

, Is the terrifioally high cost of the whole addi—
tional three boys mostly due to the architectls fancy ideasv:
If the air conditioning in any aample,‘I guess it 13! >

YOurs,

Philip N. Morse, Director
M.I,T. Computation Center

PﬁMxLWH

 

 

 

,.L.,~*' : . , ' i


