< WB

ah

Avon WN
‘

© seems to learn it. As Kipling put it (with
er no invidious intent toward our good friends
bt the Danes) :

© «It is always a temptation to a rich and 2
or lazy nation

~ To puff and look important and to say:
'._ *Though we know we should defeat you,
po We have not the time to meet you;
ee We will therefore pay you cash to go away.’
a
(it And that is called paying the Danegeld;
ta But we've proved it again and again,
bi That if once you have paid him the Dane-
=r Ax -
Us AA geld ~ —
es (You never ‘get rid of the Dane, 40

oF msn

*

ool

Ne

me Na
wy

Ym
Wry

iY

3 .

ANNE,
1

wi

Ooh
ea

van

hamid hyn NR a

§ TN Ta Salwyaet

.-

LR

FANON yr Ae ny

3 0
ny

: PF
Aten wR, yy [14

TN

restrictive conditions.
rigidly worded legislation was not able to

 

A

face tmportast foreign Polley. chiec-N
Aves? Possibly Messrs. BRIDGES and KNOwW=
LAND were in a position to make trouble ra
the appropriation. But would the Senate
really have permitted such narrow retalia~-
tion? It is unlikely that anything these

gentlemen could have done would have been

half so troublesome as the precedent the
administration has set, and the condemnas
tion it has invited, by appeasing them.

At the risk of redundancy, it is perhaps
useful to repeat the lesson of the Danegeld,
since the Eisenhower administration never

[From the New York Times of June 7, 1958]
PULLING OUT THE RUG

The kind of thing that makes loyal sup-
porters of President Eisenhower's foreign
policy lose confidence in his administration’s
willingness to fight for what it believes in has
Just been illustrated by what happened in
the Senate in the debate on proposed liberali-

. zation of the Battle Act.

~~ This law, passed in 1951 during the Korean
war, prohibits giving aid to any Communist-
dominated country except under extremely
Although even this

‘block help to Yugoslavia and Poland, the
Battle Act does make it difficult to include
such countries in the foreign-aid program,
and in fact clearly establishes congressional

© policy against attempting to crack the Iron

Curtain in this manner.

The State Department has long favored a
more flexible and imaginative approach to
foreign” aid, recognizing that anything we
can do to weaken the dependence of Com-

, munist-dominated countries on the Soviet
~ Union is to our own advantage.

With the
Department's encouragement, the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee therefore wrote
into this year’s mutual-security bill an
amendment to the Battle Act which would

- place American aid to Communist-controlled
countries on a positive instead of a negative
basis. It would permit the President to give
assistance to any country (except the Soviet
Union, Communist China, and North Korea)
if he thinks it would help it become more
democratic and more independent of Sino-
Soviet domination,

It is evident that the administration orig-
Inally favored this sensible proposal, even to
the point of helping draft the exact wording
of the amendment. But some important
Republicans, such as Senator KNowrLAND and
Senator BRIDGES, are bitterly opposed not only
to liberalizing the Battle Act but to granting
any help to satellite countries at all. They
were apparently able to frighten the White
House and the State Department into with-
drawing their active support for this measure
on a technicality, with the result that when
the test came in the Senate the amendment
failed by one vote.

There can hardly be doubt that had the
administration been willing to put up a fight
for it the Battle Act revision would have
gone through, as it should have, Democrats
and Republicans alike who backed what they
thought was the President's position on this
issue have a right to feel that the rug was
pulled out from under them-—and not for the
first time.

»

- Way Because of Electronic Computers
| EXTENSION OF REMARKS

ror 7°

~ HON. ALEXANDER WILEY

OF WISCONSIN -
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Monday, June 9,1 958

‘Mr. WILEY. Mr. President, on May 26
I pointed out to the Senate that a tech-
nical revolution is under way, thanks to
the increasing availability of high-speed
electronic computers.

These computers ate helping to achieve
breakthroughs in civilian and military
technology the like of which could not
have even been dreamed of in the pre-
war era.

In all phases of science, in industry,
in agriculture, the computers are per-

i

“mitting man to do either, first, what has

heretofore been impossible, or, second,
what has been possible only with virtual
armies of individuals at work for years
and years. - \
MATHEMATICAL PROFICIENCY OF ORACLE
AT OAK RIDGE

Today, for example, I was pleased to
receive from Dr. A. S. Householder,
director of the mathematics panel of the
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, of Oak
Ridge, Tenn., a report on some of the
tremendous achievements of the machine
known as ORACLE. The initials stand
for Oak Ridge Automatic Computer
and Logical Engine. The mathematical
wizardry of this machine is something
which almost almost takes the breath
away. It is capable of multiplying two

‘numbers in about one two-thousandths

of a second. It can add in one twenty-
thousandths of a second. ‘

Dr. “Householder, a former president
of the Association for Computing Ma->
chinery and a member at large of the

National Research Council, has been

asked to help manage United States par-
ticipation in the first International Con-
ference on Information Processing. It
will be held June 18-21, 1959, under
sponsorship of the United Nations Edu-
cational, Scientific, and Cultural Organ-
ization. 2

SPEEDING RESEARCH FOR WORLD SCIENCE FOR
PEACE

From this and similar get-togethers
should come most helpful information on
speeding the technical revolution to
which I have referred.

As a senior member of the Senate Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, I, person-
ally, am naturally especially interested
in what these computers can accomplish
in helping to pull together scientific data
from all over the world.

Electronic abstracting and retrieval
can make a world of difference for
hard-pressed, overburdened researchers
throughout the globe.

I cite as illustration of the present dire
need these observations by Prof. Maurice
B. Visscher of the University of Minne=
sota. They were presented at a confer=
ence on international aspects of librar-
ianship, held at the University of Chi-
cago in 1954;

The Technical Research Revolution U Valer

workers ‘are already so overwhe
~ few scholars are able to search the

~ degree of confidence in the completeness « «
the result. Furthermore, in any field that

Anterest to us and is being explored by our

The mountalns | pub ipl cations w

const ute the presen out put of rese
5 elming “the

literature in ‘their fields of research with

is not very recently opened, the labor involved
is so time consuming that the task often
becomes a Inajor occupation for months. or 2
years. : ip

LETTER TO SENATOR WILEY FROM T. J. WA ~ JR.

Electronic opportunities for acceler :
ated medical research are particularly
impressive. I should like to cite now a ed
fine response which I have received from =~ Ry
Mr. T. J. Watson, Jr., president of the
International Business Machines Corp.,
in response to an inquiry I had sent:

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS . .. |. =
MACHINES CORP.,
New York, N.Y., June 5, 1958.
The Honorable ALEXANDER WILEY,
United States Senate, Washington, D.C. i)

DEAR SENATOR WILEY: Thank you for your
letter of May 31 and for sending your con- ike
structive talk on the broad application of
electronic data-processing systems in the
United States.

The application of electronic computers in
medical research is an area of considerable

A i He Le jt
TX Tr

{ ’ 4
o hi of
Cf i
3
~; 3

/

ails

ARPT

research division. One possibility being in- 3
vestigated is how these machines might be =
used in the keeping of medical histories to :
the benefit of both medical research and |)
practice.

Still another area of future promise is in
the analysis of medical reports by electronic Ay
computers to help the practicing physician Cs
in diagnoses.

This use of computing machines would
seem to be most valid, and we hope that with
well-directed research worthwhile results can
be obtained.

- Sincerely yours,

a

bt
~~

La.

a tard

fe x

——
C-

Sa bd

esd

rs SY
na oo AXE Yr
ve, row

=)
uw

—

T.J. WATSON, JR.
VARIOUS ARTICLES SHOW USES OF COMPUTERS.

I have in my hands a series of articles
from various sources showing medical
and other applications of electronic com-
puters, as reported by top researchers.

From Dr. H. P. Luhn, of the Interna-
tional Business Machines Corp., comes
word of a computer which reads and
abstracts 2,300 words of a scientific ar-
ticle in 3 minutes. r

From Dr. Vladimir K. Zworykin, di-
rector of electronic research for the
Radio Corporation of America, comes the
concept of an electronic medical office,
in time to come, which will instantane-
ously compile and store medical knowl=
edge for physicians. >

From Vassar College comes welcome
word of a new course in numerical
analysis and orientation for progr aming;
that is, translating mathematical prob-
lems into machine language for elec-
tronic computers.

From the Biophysical Society, in Cam-
bridge, Mass., comes word of a computer
which identifies individuals by their
brainwave patterns—a crucial aid in the
science of electroencephalography.

From the periodical, Computers and
Automation, comes an estimate that a
hundred thousand men and women will
be ministering to computers within 10
years.

From the Minneapolis-Honeywell
Corp. comes word of a new machine
which can read 8,000 words a second
against errors.

sek

-

m= ery
a a wT ET

bh

Notify
. i
o PE

Ce

FRET a
pw] I Rg
an ff

’
yr

re rp pe te pre A MTR,

Sh ATL

.
ti |g cer gry
» ’ “


This broad variety of excerpts which.
T have compiled is intended for illustra-
tive purposes only. It is not intended to
convey a well-rounded picture of the
fantastic developments of these com-
puters by many leading companies and
“universities, applying them in all walks
wsofilifesc «x |
HELPFULNESS OF NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE

  
 
  
    
  

   

    
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

‘my request and the request of committee
“staff from the invaluable files of the Na-
‘tional Library of Medicine. This library
is, in itself, a great national, yes, inter-
‘national, asset, I may say.
~~ In President Eisenhower’s noble con-
cept of United States-Russian scientific-
~ medical cooperation for peace, I am sure
‘that the National Library will play a
particularly helpful role.
Several excerpts are from Science
~ Newsletter, a most helpful reference
'HREE PURPOSES OF MY REMARKS TODAY
~ These varied excerpts, compiled from
~ popular periodicals, then, are cited
simply as examples of the tremendous
revolution which, as I have indicated, is
“now occurring. o-oo :
~~ As I have indicated previously. to ‘the
Senate, it is essential:
~~ First. That the Federal Government
get the maximum benefit of these com-
puters; especially in those vital areas of
our national life crucial to our survival,
~ such as defense of the North American
Continent, itself.
~~ Second.. That the Federal Govern-
ment, in particular its National In-

~_ medical-scientific sources in applying
these computers to help open up new
frontiers in the preservation of human
life, itself.

Third. That maximum encouragement
‘be given under our tax, labor, and other
pas laws, to private industry in utilizing com-
~~ puters more and more. Why? For the

 

Bx ~~ free enterprise system. Efficiency and
a productivity are, of course, at the: very
gx heart of the problem in raising still
RSP higher our standards of living.

~ I send to the desk these excerpts and
- ask unanimous consent that they be
[= printed in the Appendix of the RECORD.

There being no objection, the excerpts

were ordered to be printed-in the RECORD,
asfollows:

[From the Saturday Evening Post of May 31,
1958]
Sat MAGIC EYES FOR MEDICINE
(By Dr. V. K. Zuorykin)

Already, the electronic and medical pro-
fessions have recognized the need and are
working together on an increasing scale to
remove the language barrier that has sepa-
rated them, and to work out new techniques
that can be applied on a broad front to
everyday needs of the practicing physician,
The various groups engaged in the mutual
effort include professional societies such as
the Institute of Radio Engineers, the Ameri-
can Institute of Electrical Engineers, and
the Instrument Society of America, and re-
search institutions such as the Rockefeller
Institute for Medical Research, the Johnson
Foundation of the University of Pennsyl-
vania, and the National Institutes of Health.
Industry, too, is helping through the estao-
lishment of medical electronics scholarships
at Stanford and Columbia Universities,

 

  

Th od 5 on
sion in our expanding society is something
like that which faces commerce and indus-
try when the workload ‘rises more rapidly-
than the supply of available manpower. In

Several of these excerpts have come at -

stitutes of Health, cooperate with leading

purpose of helping to secure greater effi-
RE ciency and productivity in our dynamic

  

  

Sle Ee wy
medical profes=

Ea

situation fac

  

oT
cal
hy

ng the

 

commerce and industry, the answer is sought
in the use of electronic data-processing sys-
tems to handle inventory control, billing and
other routine paperwork, and in the appli-

cation of electronic sensing and control de- '

vices which guide the flow of production in
response to instructions from punched cards
or magnetic tape. There can never be an
electronic substitute for the skill of the
trained physician, but electronic alds can
help to handle some of the routine func-
tions which frequently distract him from
the more important duties requiring his
special talents in diagnosis and treatment.
How can this be accomplished? There is
a clue in the pioneering efforts now under-
way to apply electronic data-processing fech-

niques to the classification and storage of :

new medical knowledge relating to certain
classes of diseases, so that the information
may be made quickly available on a selective
basis to the physician who needs it. A proj-
ect of this type, concerned with the blood

~diseases, is being carried out by Drs. Martin.

‘Lipkin and Ralph Engle, of New York Hos-
pital, and Dr. Baruch J. Davis, of Mount
Sinal Hospital in New York, in cooperation
with the electronic data processing division
of RCA. :

There is a further clue in some of the elec
tronic devices that now are employed in
specialized medical functions, such as par-
ticle counting and the measurement of
oxygen in the blood stream. Putting these
various possibilities together, we can arrive
at a dream of our medical future—perhaps

- 20 years or so from not. * * * :

In this dream future, a complete personal
record for yourself and all your fellow cit-

izens is kept, with your consent, at a cen- °

tral medical file for your county, State or
Nation. Similar centralized files form re-
positories of up-to-date knowledge concern-
ing human illnesses, their symptoms, and
their reactions to various drugs and treat-
ments. All this information is classified
and stored on punched cards, magnetic tape
or microfilm, as in our present-day com-
‘puters and data-handling systems, avail-
able to your personal physician upon request
by telegraph or teletype. :

When you. arrive at your doctor’s office
or at your local hospital for an annual
checkup or with some complaint, the stand-
ard questions which today take up too
much of the doctor's time are put to you
by a magnetic-tape player. You punch out
your “yes” and ‘no’ answers on a small

keyboard, under the supervision of -the-

nurse or technician. Then you are escorted
through a series of electronic measurements
of items such as height, weight, and reflexes,
while your blood count and other chemical
analyses are performed by high-speed elec-
tronic equipment. At the end of the proc-
“ess, which has consumed only a short
amount of your time and none of the phy-
sician’s, all the information has been re-
corded in duplicate on a punched card, mi-
crofilm, or tape. One copy of this record
is transmitted automatically to the central
file, where it is compared electronically with
your previous record. The most significant
changes are noted automatically, and trans-
mitted within a few minutes back to the
doctor's office or clinic. :
Thus, when you are ready for your per-
sonal interview with your physician he al-
ready has before him extensive data regard-

ing your present physical condition and

the changes which have taken place since
your preceding physical examination. In
many cases, this, along with a brief per-
sonal examination, may enable the physi-
cian te give you a clean bill of health, to
prescribe treatment, or to recommend fur-
ther tests not included in the standard ex-
amination routine. In more complex cases

    
  

-, PY
-

   
  

ent, oO 5
accumulated medica
edge of the time. Thus, electronics aids
your physician to get at the root of you
trouble more rapidly, with a reduced ex
penditure of his own time. 53s -
This, it must be emphasized, is simply a
dream--yet it is a dream based upon elec~
tronic techniques which we know to be
practical, and upon a need which increases
with each passing year. Perhaps through a
system such as this, combined with a great
extension of electronic techniques in medi-
cal research, medicine and electronics to-
gether are destined to shape for all of us
a healthier, more bountiful future.

based on the

   

[From Franklin Institute Journal of 1956,
vol. 261, pp. 587-588 |

ELECTRONIC COMPUTER HELPS DETECT CANCER
CELLS

An electronic scanning and computing de-
vice which can perform.some functions of
the human eye and brain to distinguish be-
tween normal and cancer cells was disclosed
recently.at the opening session of the Insti-
tute of Radio Engineers 4-day annual con-
vention. The device, called a cytoanalyzer,
scans the microscope images of the cells, au-
tomatically corts them in its “mind” accord-
ing to their characteristics, and classifies
them as normal or suspicious.

W. E. Tolles, H. S. Sawyer, and R. C. Bos-

‘trom, of Airborne Instruments Laboratory,

told fellow engineers at the Waldorf-Astoria
Hotel that the instrument could collect and
record in a matter of minutes more cell
measurements than a technician using the
usual manual methods could obtain in as
many months. The device is part of a larger
instrument for automatic screening of slides
for the early detection of cancer now being
developed at Airborne Instruments Labora-
tory under the sponsorship of the American
Cancer Society and the National Cancer In-
stitute of the United States Public Health
Service.

The cytoanalyzer consists of a scanning ele-
ment which converts. the cell images into
electrical signals, and a computer which ap-
plies rules of logic, much as a technician
would, to recognize true cell signals and re-
Ject signals that have no diagnostic value.
The accepted signals are then recorded on an
electronic graph that in effect sorts the indi-
vidual cells according to their characteris=-
tics. <

This computer technique is expected to

prove helpful also in obtaining information ec

about the growth of cells and the functioning
of the heart and brain.

 

[From National Safety News of 19566, vol. 73,
p. 110]

RADIOACTIVE FALLOUT COMPUTER DEVELOPED BY
NBS

A special-purpose computed that gives the
geographical fallout pattern of radioactivity
resulting from a nuclear explosion has been
developed by the National Bureau of Stand-
ards. Given the necessary weather data to-
together with certain information about the
bomb, this analog computer will assist in pre-
dicting what the distribution and intensity
of radioactivity will be on the ground after
the bomb has been detonated.

 

[From New York Herald Tribune of May 4,
1958]

RosBOoT READS, ABSTRACTS 2,300 WORDS IN 3
MINUTES

(By Earl Ubell)

Dr. H. P. Luhn inserted a roll of magnetic
tape into the big International Business Ma-
chines computer. On it in the form of elec-
trical signals were 2,326 words or an article
from The Science American on hormones of


Pe

 

Sowa

= magnet, the signals sped into the machine
and, according to a preset circuit, they were
routed to radio tubes, tapes, magnets, and a

thousand other parts of the giant electronic
“brain. 3

- human’ task; a task that ordinarily takes at

. yi rE En i
we ds oe a -

ne 4 =.

       
  
  

Re. A 0

: eo ns a bu n
te to

Sd 2200 ,000 multiplications a second. Univac
he tape whirred under the pickup

can print 600 lines of answers on paper every
minute complete with carbon copies. x
When such feats are compared with the
abilities of humans, it’s enough to give man
an inferiority complex. An IBM machine in
the @overnment’s vast social security head-
quarters in Baltimore is managed by Po
dozen clerks; it does in 21, hours what

100 of them use to do in three 8-hour shifts.
The Univac-Larc will duplicate in 2 min-
utes the lifetime output of a man using a
good desk calculator.

_ That is the drama of the computer revo-
lution. It's the reason atomic scientists
at Oak Ridge can perform rapid ‘calcula-
tions previously not possible at all. The
machines are even computing the amount
cows should be fed to produce a maximum
quantity of milk. And right now Eastern
Airlines is installing a Univac that will store
information on a million seats for 3 months
ahead. It will arrange for 60,000 reserva-
tions a day.

Three minutes later, the machine’s auto-
matic typewriter started clicking. At high
speed it typed out four sentences. Those
four statements represented the gist of the
article. The machine had made an abstract.

HOW DOES IT DO IT?
How did the machine de this impossibly

least a half-hour of hard work by a skilled
abstractor? Is the machine human? Is
there a midget hiding inside that does all
the work?

Far from it. The humanity of the ma-
chine was built into it by Dr. Luhn and his
many colleagues at I. B. M. Whatever think-
ing the machines did, the men did it in ad=-
vance. But the machine has the capacity for
speeding up thought patterns by using radio
tubes that act with the speed of light.

[From Science News Letter for March 1, 1958]
IDENTIFICATION BY EEG

Use of an eletronic computer to identify
individuals by their brain wave patterns was
described to the Biophysical Society meet-
ing in Cambridge, Mass. “The computer is
programed to describe numefically the
compplex wave forms found in electroenceph-
alograms or EEG's. t

Although it has long been recognized that
each person has his own brain wave signa-
ture, a characteristic EEG pattern that ap-
pears when he is awake and resting under
standard conditions, there has been no ex-
act or quantitative way of describing it.
Judgments of which characteristics of the
EEG wave form change significantly from
person to person have had to depend in the
past on the skill of experienced EEG tec =
nicians.

Now, in the study made by a team of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology scien-
tists, the Lincoln TX-O electronic computer
has been used to measure a number of the
characteristics of EEG wave forms and their
yariability. Primary attention was paid to
the behavior of “bursts of alpha activity,” as
they were defined by the computer program.

 

[From Science News Letter for June 7, 1958]
ELECTRONIC LIBRARIAN

An electronic librarian was described by
Dr. H. P. Luhn of the International Business
Machines Corp.

The business intelligence system, reported
to the conference of communication scien-
tists, would: be able to match documents to
readers. :

Dr. Luhn envisions a centralized service
using a large-scale computing machine that
would combine information retrieval with
a notification service to the users of the
information.

In Dr. Luhn's system the potential user
would first write a description of his back-
ground and work. This would be analyzed
by machine to determine a profile of the
subjects in which the user would b
interested.

At the same t , documents fed into th
machine would Ln be analyzed and standard
abstracts prepared.

“The information analysis of each docu-
ment would then be matched by the machine
with the interest profile of each user,” Dr.
Luhn said.

The user would be given a selected list of
titles by the machine, if the machine's
matching showed that the user should re-
ceive the new information. From these titles
the user could then select abstracts and from
the abstracts, full papers that he would want
to read.

In the final step, the mischines would note
which documents the user selected and the
machine would revise the user's profile im-
mediately. In this way the machine would
always have an up-to-date picture of in-
terests of each of its users.

Direct requests for information made by
the user could also be reflected in his profile. _

[From the New York Times of May 27, 1958]
"(By Elizabeth M. Fowler)

The graduate of a liberal arts women's col-
lege often finds she needs a fast secretarial-
typing course as a job clincher. Now Vassar
College offers some of its mathematically in-
clined students a new job getter—unders,
graduate training in the use of electronic
computers.

For several years industry has been urging
colleges to offer such courses. The one at
Vassar was proposed by Jane Johnson of the
college vocational bureau, who said:

“If math students could have a good
course in numerical analysis and some ori-
entation in programming [translating
mathematical problems into machine lan-
guage| for electronic computers, students
would then have instant value upon gradua-
tion.”

The course was begun quietly and when
it proved successful was repeated this semes-
ter. The International Business Machines
Corp., which operates a plant in Vassar’s home
town of Poughkeepsie, N. Y. provides a
model 650 computer (a magnetic drum data-
processing machine) and donates the services
of Dr. Fred P. Brooks, a graduate of Duke
University and a Harvard doctor of phi=-
losophy, to lecture three times a week. Cata-
loged as Mathematics 3856b (Principles of
Digital Computation), the course carries 8
hours of credit for the semester. Texts are
Introduction to Numerical Analysis by
Francis B. Hildebrand and Digital Computer
Programming by D. D. McCracken.

 

[From Pageant for March 1958]
ELECTRONIC BRAINS MEAN JOBS FOR YOU
(By Harold Mehling)

“Competition is keen right now for spe-
cialists who can make the computers work
faster,” says Edmund Berkeley, publisher of
the periodical Computers and Automation.
The most conservative estimate holds that
© 100,000 men and women will be ministering
to computers within 10 years. Other esti-
mates run as high as 180,000.

Today's outpouring of electronic com-
puters represents the fastest technical revo-
lution in history.

* * % * *

The Univac-Larc, which the United States
Census Bureau will use in 1960, will do over

Cn La a A CLA
ud ANSE y NA AI aR

var
IS
of I PT RE AON wu
- Ce - »
—_ T A

CONC GRE SSIONAL RECORD - = — APPEND DIX

  

    
  

pT

“The important HET from the student

Shr
viewpoint,” Dr. Brooks said, “4s that this 1s Si

a branch of mathematics not included in the

curriculum but very important for the ap-

plication of the advanced mathematician,

whether he or she uses a compen, Qesis

calculator or pen and nd pencil. A

[From the New York We World- Telegram & Sun
of June 4, 1958]

ELECTRONIC BRAINS CALL FOR BIG Tow: wh

(By Charles M. Sievert) :

Growth: It takes a big tuition, as Minne-
apolis Honeywell's president, Paul B. Wish-

art, puts it, to get into the manufacture of 3
data processing machines, but it's a promis-
ing field for corporate growth and this plo=

neer in automatic control is in it to stay.

Latest marvel in its electronic brain de-

velopment is the Orthotronic Control and.
this system monitors the Datamatic 1000,
which can read 8,000 words a second, against
errors. Something like cops watching cops.

An Annapolis graduate, Paul Wishart ad-

mits that his company has plunged, not

waded, into electronic brain field, but ‘he

says Minneapolis ‘Honeywell will digest the
huge chunk it now has in research and de-

 

 

WME
a

pe

 
 

    
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

—-—
- TL

ol

ARES

ar gpa

velopment without putting more into brick RL 4

and mortar for the present.
“As’' with other promising fields of manu-
facture in postwar year, such as television

and air conditioning, Paul admits that the 3
computer and bookkeeping robots have at-

tracted many. But the fiield is crowded in
the low-price ($50,000-$75,000) bracket in

‘which about-40 companies are competing.

The high-price bracket, such as the $2.5
million processing machinery being readied
for our Trefsury Department by Honeywell's

Datamatic division, apparently is wide open

for the ambitious. This is'the area requiring
the big tuition, meaning millions for just
research and development,

 

Aviation Safety
EXTENSION OF REMARKS

"HON. A. S. MIKE MONRONEY

OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
Monday, June 9, 1 958 -

Mr. MONRONEY. Mr. President, the
Nation’s attention recently has been
focused on air safety and the fact that
our present law is not adequate for the
jet age. Mr. Scott Sutton, a newscaster
for WTOP, did an excellent job of pulling
together in a brief broadcast of less than
5 minutes the problem, with details of re-
cent crashes, and an explanation of the
types of air traffic control now in use
along with an exposition of the bill, S.
3880, which 32 of my colleagues joined
me in cosponsoring. As an example of
good radio reporting, I commend it to my
colleagues and ask unanimous consent to
have it printed in the Appendix of the
RECORD,

There being no objection, the broad-
cast was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD.

(See exhibit A.)

Mr. MONRONEY. Mr. President, re-
cently I spoke at a meeting of the Avia-

tion Writers’ Association at Houston,

Tex. Another speaker was Jerome
Lederer,
Foundation, Inc., and Cornell-Guggen-
heim Aviation Safety Center, who was,

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

.

director of the Flight Safety


| we!
ion upon which ‘the a, may i
soon, and I ask unanimous consent to
“have them printed in the Appendix of
~~ the RECORD.
5 There being no objection, the address
pr “was ordered to be printed in the RECORD.
~~ (See exhibit B.)
2 Mr. ‘MONRONEY. Mr. President, us-
73 ng our hearings of last Thursday on the

aviation bill as a basis, William Cooper
OL Scripps-Howard Newspapers did an
‘excellent reporting job on the problem
i of air traffic control in relation to air
= safety last Saturday, and Mr. Charles
Yarbrough of the Evening Star wrote
' an article in the Sunday Star yesterday
which sheds further light on the situa-
tion. I ask unanimous consent for in-

clusion of these news stories in the
~ Appendix of the RECORD. Ps

were ordered to be Serine
ga RECORD.
Bsa (See exhibit C.)-
a : EXHIBIT A

~~ ~~. WTOP COMMENT
Ea = (By Scott Sutton, May 21, 1958)
The midair collision over Brunswick, Md.,
~~ this week dramatizes the need for some sort
~ of unified control of America’s air space if
i ~~ such tragedies are to be averted in the
Tuture.

The collision of the military jet with the

TY
Nard

" ry

AOE TR

doi
i

TIRVEY
A w ry
al

their lives is only 1 start tragedy of several
that have plagued the air highways over
the United States, mainly because air safety
regulations have not been revised to meet
the growing saturation of space by more
and faster planes.

There was the midair crash of a military
gp Jet and a United Air Lines plane over Nevada
Eis on April 21 of this year in which 49 persons
. were killed; June 30, 1956, the terrifying
BS total of 128 persons were killed when a TWA

: and United passenger plane collided; and on
November 1, 1949, the last local accident
; prior to the Brunswick disaster, a Bolivian
~~ jet pilot crashed an American P-38 into
an Eastern Airlines plane over Washington

National Airport, killing 55 persons. And
these real disasters are further heightened

~ by the fact that almost 3 near misses a
eo - day occurred in 1957, for a total of 971 near-
N= misses last year, according to figures re=-
~~ leased by the Civil Aeronautics Board.

Essentially, the problem is the result of
2 separate air control systems—1 for military
craft, another for civilian planes—and when

\ they overlap, trouble occurs, as evidenced

by the statistics. It is apparent that some-
thing must be done to revise the system,
and the increasing frequency of midair
crashes underscores the urgency for action.
Any further delay most likely will permit
more such tragedies. :
Air traffic systems as presently set up in-
volve two types of air control: Visual flight
- rules and instrument flight rules. Visual
flight assumes that the pilots can see each
other; Instrumental flight assumes that
weather conditions preclude pilots seeing
each other and places the planes under
ground surveillance assigned to a specific
altitude, time of flight and other regula-
tions. However, the trouble is that not all
planes fly both systems at the same time
in the same area, so that quite frequently
they overlap, as was the case in the Bruns-
wick, Md. crash.
Adequate control of flight traffic therefore
depends vitally upon some type of central
agency through which all flight patterns

% FI NRT

yr
wv

TTT
Te .

A a ~~ ‘There being no objection, the articles.
oF in~‘the

Capital Viscount .in which 12 persons lost:

 

islation for introduction in the Senate this

week that is one step toward meeting this

problem. The Oklahoma Democrat would
create a Federal Aviation Agency which would

. have independent status, directly responsible

to the President and Congress, and headed
by a single civilian administrator with pre-
vious aviation experience. The Administra=-
tor would be given the necessary authority

to regulate the use of all air space over the

United States by civil and military aircraft
and to establish and operate a unified sys-
‘tem of air traffic control.

Under the Monroney measure, the civilian
Administrator would be advised about the
special problems of military aviation by a
military advisor appointed by the S2cretary
of Defense. The Monroney measure further
provides for the-transfer of the Civil Aero-
‘nautics Authority to the new Agency; and

‘would also transfer the present responsibility
~ of the Civil Aeronautics Board for making

“and enforcing safety rules to the new group.

The Board would retain the power to review

appeals and its responsibility Tor economic
regulation of civil aviation and for accident
investigation. The = Board's investigatory
powers would be enlarged by allowing the
President to appoint members to special in-
quiry groups to investigate” major air ac-
cidents. }

These provisions of the Monroney measure
do not of course provide the complete an-
swer to the problem, nor would they guar-
antee no air accidents; there is much more
to be done in other areas, such as an im-
proved radar and computer system in a na-
tionwide traffic safety system. But the Mon-
roney measure is a right step toward solv-
ing the central error in our present dual
system of alr traffic control. First, a strong
central authority must control all air high-
ways, and the Monroney measure or some=
thing very similar should be passed by Con-
gress without delay. :

ExmiBiT B

TEXT OF REMARKS BY JEROME LEDERER, DIREC-
TOR OF FLIGHT SAFETY FOUNDATION, INC.

. AND CORNELL-GUGGENHEIM AVIATION SAFETY
CENTER, UPON RECEIVING MONSANTO AVIA-
TION SAFETY AWARD FOR 1957 FrOM THE
AVIATION WRITERS' ASSOCIATION AT HOUSTON,
TEX., May 30, 1958

In a few weeks the United States will cele-
brate the 20th anniversary of the establish-
ment of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938.
-Under this act, the aviation industry has suc-

cessfully met two challenges: Public accept-
ance. of aviation, on which its economic.

future depends, and safety.
In 1938, only a little over a million pas=-
sengers rode the airlines. This year over 49

million passengers are expected. In 1938; the:

fatalities per 100 million passenger-miles was
4.5. Last year it was 0.2. The number of
aircraft in general use in 1938 was close to
11,000 of which 183 were involved in fatal
accidents. Last year the number was over

67,000 of which about 360 were involved in

fatal accidents,

As highways become more congested, as

more aids to navigation are installed and
more landing areas built, an ever-growing
number of people will seek the air in prefer-
ence to the hazards of the road. But the
Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938 was designed
for a different breed of aircraft than we are
now on the threshold of using. The cruising
speed of the air transports of 1938 was less
than many of the privately owned aircraft
of today.

The new transports will fly 8 times as fast,
8 times as high, descend 10 times as rapidly,
welgh 12 times as much, and carry up to
10 times as many passengers as those of 1938.
They will be equipped with an entirely differ-

35 Se
“ent kin

2 Er a MIKE MONRONEY has prepared Tog=

Washington.

werplant. They will or T
the same air space as military pent

climb or descent will use the same air space
“as all other aircraft.

Added to this new development is
growing use of helicopters and, in a few
years, of steep takeoff and landing aircraft.

These should enable the airlines to penetrate

the short haul market as successfully as they

have taken over the long haul passenger

market.

The new dynamism in aviation will have
to be matched by an equal dynamism in
Aviation is so closely tied to
regulation that it cannot. accelerate with
decisions -that have to be jointly made by

the CAA and CAB. A single independent

agency should be able to act faster, carry
more weight in the halls of Congress and
with the Budget Bureau than the existing
two agencies—one of which operates under
another governmental department which has
many other interests. The other, though

independent, is beset by a combination of

technical and economic problems that (with
the best of intentions) tends toward a
lack of concentration on objectives that re-

quire continuous attention and proper de-

cisions based on factual evidence accumu-
lated with the utmost dispatch.

In short, the Civil Aeronautics Act as
amended is no longer geared to aviation's
jet. age. A new federal agency is required.
The aviation industry has long recognized
the need to modernize its air traffic con-
trol system. Until 1956, the industry failed
to sell the Budget Bureau and Congress on
the importance of technical corrective action

by its placing confidence in the ability of

some 75 committees to solve the problem,
each working in its own interest. Commit-
tee operation seldom provides the faciilly
needed to attack a problem such as air
traffic control.

The air trafic control situation has been
and will remain for some time to come the
most critical problem facing aviation. For-
tunately, the solution now rests in the able
hands of Gen. E. R. Quesada and his Air-

. ways Modernization Board.

The most reassuring outcome of the crisis
created by the two recent collisions is the
added emphasis of the need for a single Fed-
eral aviation agency to replace the CAA and
CAB coupled with the fortitude displayed by
governmental agencies in not making pre-
cipitous decisions merely to satisfy pressure
(behind decisions thoughtlessly arrived at
often lurk much greater dangers). The co-
operative attitude of the military forces and
the eagerness with which Congress is work=-
ing with the aviation industry to arrive at a
safe solution based on judgment instead of

snap decisions is the kind of mature action

which is required.

However, the industry should learn a les-
son from this experience. Why was it un-
able to combat complacency in the highest
reaches of government in regard to the air
traflic-control situation prior to 1956? Who,
in the industry refused to recognize the im=-
portance of the problem? Was there. any
pussyfooting? What can be done to prevent
such a situation from arising again? These
questions should be answered not to fix
blame but to prevent similar delays in the
future in other areas. The same kind of
lethargy is apparent now in other fields of
aviation safety such as the needs of the
Weather Bureau, the need for attention to
human factors, and crash-injury research.

There is a direct connection between air
traffic control and noise because the aircraft
must follow patterns that will disturb the
public least. If the public will give the new
jets a chance, the noise problem will be
worked out to everyone’s satisfaction. The

‘Initial trials may produce some annoyances

in spite of the tremendous effort that the
Industry has been making to reduce noise to-
acceptable level,

whe A

VA

Ar |
hia Ly awe wan »

arr ya,

wth

AV spot fa pus

 
  
  

  

Zrii -

A lh ha
iF

5
-~
\


realize that = ‘some of these demonstrations
& 8 Santa Communist inspired and di-

rected. However, we must not be too quick
to put all the blame on communism’s door-
step. For example, in Latin America, there
is a deep, underlying resentment of Ameri~
can policy which goes back for many years.
True, American policies toward Latin Amer-
ica have drastically changed in the past 25
years, but many people in this dynamic area
still view us with suspicion and outright
dislike.

Question. What about other areas of- the
world, Senator?

Answer. Recent events in the Middle East
and in Africa have shown that there is wide-
spread misunderstanding of American ob-
jectives. Almost all of the demonstrations
of anti-American sentiment have been di-
rected against our so-called imperialistic ob-
jectives. We know that nothing is further
from the truth. However, regrettably, the
Communist propagandists have convinced
people in these underdeveloped areas that
our objectives are to keep them in a state
of destitution and misery. These are the
lies which we must counteract. We can
counteract them in part by a program of
information and truth. However, the most
constructive and effective means of spread-
ing the truth to people in these areas is by
a dynamic program of action which will fur-
ther assist them to achieve their ultimate
goals of independence and self-determina-
tion. These countries have long been “have-
nots”—we have been a nation of the “haves.”
Resentment and bitterness are only natural
human reactions to these conditions.

Question, What can the United States do
to improve these relations, Senator WILEY?

Answer. First, we must realize that in the
past 20 years our world has shrunk to a frac-
tion of its former size, figuratively speaking.
We are only a few minutes away from any
spot on our globe. Therefore, our entire
concept of America as a place remote\from
other nations must be changed.

Question. What else, Senator?

Answer. Even more important, we have
reached a point in civilization where the

so-called “have-nots” must not be permitted

to exist as such in this world. In this mod-
ern day and age there is no reason for con-
tinuing poverty and misery in any area. We
live in a world of plenty. We live in a world
of education and science. -It is imperative
that all peoples in all areas of the world be
enabled to take advantage of this new and
dynamic concept of living. This means that
we, who believe in true democracy and liberty,
must rededicate ourselves to these principles.
In doing this, we must develop a constructive
new policy which will give a helping hand
to these nations and peoples, in order that
they may achieve their proper place in the
family of free nations.

Question. What is being done to accom-
plish this objective, Senator?

Answer. One of the measures under dis-
cussion In Congress is directly aimed at im-
proving conditions in underdeveloped areas
of the world. In so doing, we will strengthen
the security of America and the free world.

Question. What measure are you referring
to, Senator?

Answer. I refer to the Mutual Security Act
which will soon be discussed in the Senate.

Question. You stated that the Senate
would soon be acting on this bill, Senator
WILEY?

Answer. Yes. The House has already
passed its version of the mutual security bill,
During the past week, the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, of which I am a mem-
ber, has been studying the House-passed
measure, and making some suggestions which
I believe strengthen the bill.

Question. Could you tell your listeners
briefly just what the Mutual Security Act is?

Answer. Well; this bill provides for a pro=-
gram of economic, technical and military as-

3 | CONGRESSIONAL RECORD : — SENATE

sistance to other nations of the world, Un- :
der provisions of this act, we assist under-

developed nations to improve their economic
status. We instruct them in public health
and sanitation. We establish schools and
hospitals. We teach the peoples of these
less fortunate areas more modern methods of
farming, in order that they may produce
more food from their soil.

Question. You said that this also provided
military assistance, Senator WILEY?

Answer. Yes. In some instances we assist
our allies a building up their military
strength. ith our help, more than 2, mil=-
lion foreign . troops—at relatively inex-
pensive cost—are now in the front lines
against the threat of Communist world domi-
nation. If we stopped our aid program to
these nations, they couldn't support even a
fraction of that armed manpower. Thus our
military assistance program enables our al-
lies to maintain their military strength with
their own troops. This relieves us of the
necessity of having American troops in great
force located throughout the world. This is

why the Senate restored the $160 million au-

thorization in military ald funds which the
House had deleted from the Presiients re-
quest.

Question. Senator, there has been a con-
siderable amount of controversy on this bill.
Can you give us the reason for this?

Answer. I would be glad to. I believe it
is controversial only because it is widely mis-

understood. We frequently hear this bill re-.

ferred to as a giveaway of American taxpay-
ers’ dollars. This isn’t the case at all. The
mutual security program does not give any-
thing away. This program is a sound invest-
ment in security for America and peace for
the world. I quite frankly believe that had
it not been for the existing mutual security
program, we might have already had a great
number of additional brushfire incidents, or
even possibly the dreadful prospect of world
war III, a
Question. Does the mutual security pro-
gram make cash grants to underdeveloped
nations, Senator?

Answer. Only in a few instances. In most
cases, the money appropriated for mutual se-
curity is spent in the United States. Latest
estimates indicate that more than 80 percent
of foreign-aid funds are spent in this country
purchasing goods and services for use over-
seas. This means that mutual security funds
give a boost to our own economy and create
jobs in virtually every aspect of the American
economy. According to estimates I have re-
ceived from the State Department, more than

500,000 persons in the United States are em--

ployed as a direct result of the mutual-secur-
ity program.

Question. Senator WILEY, during recent
months, there have been many accusations
of wasteful utilization of mutual security
funds. Has anything been done to correct
this?

Answer. By all means. The Foreign R
tions Committee of the Senate, the Forel
Affairs Committee of the House, and the In
ternational Cooperation Administration it-
self, all have conducted extensive investiga-
tions into each specific charge of waste.
am happy to report that almost all of the
charges were found to be completely false.
In the few isolated instances in which there
was substance to the charges, conditions were
corrected immediately. Naturally, we will
continually watch for needless expense in

‘this, and all other Government programs.

The American taxpayers are carrying a tre-
mendous burden of expense. It is our solemn
responsibility to ascertain that every tax dol-
lar is spent wisely on programs which will
be of the greatest possible benefit to the
United States. i

Question. You feel that the mutual-secur-
ity program accomplishes this objective,
Senator WILEY?

assume their rightful place in the family 48 =

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  

  
  
     

 

  

“dollar spent on mutual security has
very wise investment in America’s se

and the safety of “the free ‘world . When nt
tions in other parts of the world are strong

economically, physically, and militarily, the wo
danger of Communist infiltration is ently
reduced. When we assist other nations to

 

  

 
 

 

    
   
 
   
  
   
     
  
  
   

‘of independent nations, we are contributing =
to the Songs of the non-Communist —

secure. x
Question. Russia has greatly expanded he

she, Senator WiLEY?
~ Answer. Yes, indeed; she has. a h :
a rapidly growing program of aid to under
developed areas. She has combined her pro-
gram with an aggressive trade expansion pro-
gram. Only recently, Allen Dulles, Director
of our Central Intelligence Agency stated
that the greatest threat in the history of the
United States is the economic offensive now
being waged by Russia. You may remem-
ber, Premier Khrushchev announced to an
American newspaper man recently that Rus-
sia declared war on the United States in the
field of world trade and economics. This
was no idle boast. We have already seen
some results of this new, aggressive, economic
policy in Russia. She is making commit-
‘ments for assistance to many countries in
strategic areas of the globe, and furthermore,
Russia is honoring these commitments. She
is continually searching for new areas in
which to begin her economic infiltration.
We have seen Russia’s economic offensive -
functioning in Asia—in the Mideast and in
Africa. She is even now making overtures
for 4 technical assistance program to Latin
America. We cannot afford to allow Russia
to get her foot in the door any farther than
she already has. hr
America has been challenged. In all
frankness, we cannot afford to ignore this
challenge. Our survival as a nation de-
pends on our awareness and recognition of
the dangers which confronts us.

Question. When do you thing the mutual >
security bill will be signed into law Senator? =
Answer. As I mentioned before, the Senate

should act on the bill sometime late this
week. Then the differences between the
House and Senate versions will have to be
resolved in conference. Following this, it
will go to the White House for the President's
signature. The bill we are now discussing is °
only the authorization bill. No funds are
appropriated under this measure. A sepa=-
rate appropriation bill must be passed be-
fore the program will be in operation. a
Question. Well, Senator WILEY, I see that
our time is up. Have you any last minute
message for your friends in the Chicago area?
Answer. Yes, I just want to say it has been
a pleasure being with you tonight on this
Congressional Review. I hope that some
e in the future I will have the opportu-
again to talk with you. Now, in con=-
sion, I wish to thank Station WIND once
in for inviting me to participate in this
adcast. This is Senator ALEXANDER WILEY
Wisconsin bidding you all good night.

is
ind fp -
4IN tg Pl
He GEV 3) y
13 hd Lr a o*

a Ww

-

‘ & n
'
14 ’
wig ny »
: be
: :

.
» ~~ 4
“w 2
FYE a
Broo
Wi ME UTE
a

     

Soa

a

\ ANA od

 

\ PX
-

’
4

wu JJ

)

fh PN al An fo ah
i 2

Aki

pa

"

role

Ore SA ata Lt » ot

 

UTILIZATION OF ELECTRONIC
BRAINS TO SPEED UNITED
STATES RESEARCH

Mr. WILEY. Mr. President, observers
have often stated that we are in the
midst of four great revolutions in this
20th century.

(a) The first is a social revolution
throughout the world, The “have-not”
nations are seeking to raise their stand-
ards of living and to secure their place
in the sun.

ol

Vp ak pg

AA.

Te aA Red AN pe


f Which. Si the mai of
cuts in the mutual security bill.
Let me say that I am glad to see that
the Senator from Louisiana has just re-
entered the Chamber.
In the committee we were successful
in the case of one of the pr oposed cuts.
fter that amendment was agreed to,
here was a record vote of the members
‘the committee on the question of re-
orting the bill to the Senate; and every
member of the committee except the
~ Senator from Louisiana was to be re-
corded in that connection. Therefore,
I exercised the judgment which I
thought the premises called for, in view
of the fact that we had been successful
in having the amendment agreed to. So

I voted his proxy in favor of reporting
the bill to the Senate.

- But I wish to make very. clear that al-
though the committee has voted to re-
‘port the bill to the Senate, it does not
necessarily follow that the Senator from
= Louisiana, any more than the Senator
~ from Oregon, agrees with every part of
the mutual security bill. In fact, this
afternoon I am filing my objections to
certain parts of the mutual security bill;
~ and, as a member of the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, I shall submit amend-

‘ments of my own on the floor of the

Senate. ,

I make this statement to the Presiding

Officer (Mr. ProxMIRE in the chair) in
Eee. particular, because he has just submitted
; some amendments, and has done so on
‘the basis of a principle with which I
& agree, namely, that a showing must be
~~ © made in connection with the criteria the
~ Senator from Wisconsin has laid down.

"I think the criteria of the Senator
from Wisconsin are sound; and in my
judgment a showing must be made to

justify spending even $1 of the tax-

  

 
  

   

  
 
 

 

  

  

  

  

  

      
     
   
   
      
      
    
   
   
           
    
  
  
 

 
   

TY an . ra nn
1. TTT DENY
a EN A AIR Pah jg VN
= ha V W

i Rr

CO
vet
¥

TREY
4
‘

:
\
i

anywhere in the world.

FEA ER
\ (tf
YY 3

jections to the mutual security bill is
based on my belief that the bill does not
sufficiently pinpoint what, in fact, should
be congressional objections to sending
money to support dictators in South
America.
_ Although one of the amendments was
agreed to by the committee—and T was
glad to see at least that one amendment
agreed to—in my judgment the bill is not
yet sufficiently strong.
. However, in fairness to the Senator
from Louisiana, I thought I should make
this statement, because he also has ob-
jections to the bill. Let me say that I
PA exercised his proxy under the conditions
= which I have just explained to the
Senate. The REecorp should show that
the Senator from Louisiana was willing
to have the bill reported to the Senate,
but that does not mean that he likes all

{
om ! &
TRAP A IN

64 OE SE ay th I LAY Tal» f

\ fogs yy FRU
IA Li
: "
4 -_

RT
SE
al)

) 1

 

aspects of the bill. In fact, I understand
{ ) that he does not like many of them.
: Therefore, I make this explanation,
r because if any person in Louisiana were
= : to interpret my exercise of his proxy as

an indication that the Senator from
Louisiana favors all features of the bill, I
wish to state that my exercise of his
proxy does not mean that he supports the
bill in toto.

N A San ew ERA a aa

 

 

payers’ money in support of a dictator

As my colleagues know, one of my ob-

Mr. MANSFIELD. Mr. Prostdent will

the Senator from Oregon yield to me?

Mr. MORSE. I yield.

Mr. MANSFIELD. As I recall, the
Senator from Oregon, at the suggestion

of other members of the committee, went
into an anteroom and telephoned the

Senator from Louisiana at the hospital

at Bethesda, to inquire how his vote
should be recorded on the question of
marking up the bill.

Mr. MORSE. That is correct.

I also wish to make clear that in my
conversation with the Senator from
Louisiana, I did not receive the specific
instructions I wish I had obtained in re-
gard to how to exercise his proxy on the
question of the final vote in the com-
mittee.. But I am satisfied that when I
did vote his proxy in the way I have
stated, I voted in accordance with his
wish to have the bill come to the floor of
the Senate.

I understand that the Senator from
Louisiana wishes to have the bill come
before the Senate, but that when it is
brought up on the floor, he intends to
submit some amendments to it.

Mr. LONG. Mr. President, I thank

‘the Senator from Oregon for voting my
proxy in favor of the amendment which

was submitted in the committee.
However, I wish to make clear that I
shall not be in support of the bill on the
question of its final passage, unless I
hear some arguments in addition to the
ones I have already .-heard during the
past 8 years in favor of this program.
Mr. BIBLE. Mr. President, let me
join the Senator from Oregon in welcom=-

ing the distinguished Senator from

Louisiana [Mr. LonG] back to the floor.

 

THE IMPORTANCE OF ACTION ON
THE MUTUAL SECURITY ACT
OF 1958—ADDRESS BY SENATOR
WILEY :

Mr. WILEY. Mr. President, on this
very day the Senate Committee on For=
eign Relations is reporting the vital
Mutual Security Act of 1958, This im-
portant bill will be coming up for action
in the Senate very shortly. In my judg-
ment, favorable action on it is indispen-
sable in the national interest, and in the
interest of the free world.

If the Senate shall pass it, it will pro=-
vide the sort of constructive headline
which will be the best answer to the
disturbing headlines which we see based
upon news dispatches from so many
parts of the world.

As we watch disturbing developments
in France, in Algeria, in Indonesia, in
South America, there is often a feeling,
“If only we could do something—with-
out interfering—which would help meet
these challenges to the free world.”

There is something we can definitely
do. It is not an act of interference; it is
the enlightened act of the leading nation
of the free world, the partner of the free
world. It is an act for aid, but more
important, it is an act of great psycho-
logical significance, for we can help
pour much-needed oil on troubled wa-
ters by passage of the bill which is being
reported today.

address the convention of the Republican

  
   
   

enacted substantially dni oi
form, thanks to wise bipartisan
ter still, nonpartisan accord.

If, however, we were to make the | mis-
take of changing it substantially by
harmful amendment, if we were to:
emasculate it, instead of pouring oil on
troubled waters, we would instead be
pouring oil and then lighting a match
to the oil.

I am certain that we will do no such
thing.

Year after year, the Congress of the
United States has risen with statesman-
ship to the challenge of mutual security
before it. do

Year after year, we have demonstrated
our increasing understanding of the
facts of the atomic age; the shrunken -
world in which jets will soon be crossing
the Atlantic in 6 hours and in which mis-
siles will soon be capable of being fired
over the roof of the world in less than
30 minutes.

Last Saturday, it was my privilege to

        
   
     
   
   
    
    
   
 
     
     
      
   
   
     
      
 
 
   
    

Party of my State. At that time I
pointed out the facts of the atomic age
as they affect Wisconsin and America.
On Sunday, by taped transcription, it
was my privilege to deliver a broadcast
over station WIND, Chicago. At that
time I stated that the Mutual Security
Act is the best antidote to the anti-
American demonstrations which have
occurred in several areas of the world.

I ask unanimous consent that the text
of my address over Station WIND be
printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the address
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,

as follows:

“ANTI-AMERICAN DEMONSTRATIONS CALL FOR
REDEDICATION TO CAUSE OF LIBERTY AND
FrEEDOM,'’ SAYS SENATOR WILEY—CITES MU~
TUAL SECURITY AS CONSTRUCTIVE REMEDY FOR
WorLD TURMOIL

My friends, it is a great pleasurefor nme 10
participate in this series of congressional re-
view broadcasts. I appreciate the opportu=
nity afforded me by station WIND to join you
and discuss current congressional activities.

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
    

~ As you know, this session of Congress may

well be one of the-most important in recent -
years. The problems we are discussing are of
vital importance to every citizen of our
Nation. America is in a struggle for her very
survival. In this battle we are not alone.
The entire free world is threatened with de=-
struction. We are faced by an opposing
philosophy which has as its announced pur-
pose the overthrow and annihilation of dem=-
ocratic systems of government, both here -
in the United States, and in other nations
where liberty is cherished. It is our respon-
sibility to counteract this threat with a con-
structive program which will make America
more secure, and which will insure the rights
and privileges of freedom-loving people
throughout the world. This is the job which
is facing America today. This is what Con=-
gress is striving to do in the current session.

Question. Senator WILEY, in recent weeks
we have seen many outbursts of anti-Amer-
jcanism in widespread areas of the world.
What has been the reaction in Congress to
these Incidents?

Answer. We are all, of course, highly con-
cerned about incidents of antidemocratic
feeling during the past few months. We


ng a0 Bink fuel sources.
c) ‘The third is the speed revolution,
in ‘which the jet planes further shrinks.
‘the world of transportation distances
i and time. ag
(d) And the fourth is the revolution
 broah about by the high-speed elec-
tronic computer.
It is the latter subject which, as I
~ should like to point out today, holds
breathtaking possibilities for man’s bet-
terment.

~~ COMPUTERS WARN AGAINST ENEMY ATTACK

Ig As my colleagues are aware, electronic
data processing - systems are, at this
~*~ very moment, at work in the defense of
' the United States. They are receiving
and interpreting masses of information
about planes and objects in the skies
approaching or within continental
_ United States. And these reports and
interpretations are made with an ac-
curacy and speed which would be impos-
¥ sible for large numbers of human beings.
J, Electronic brains are now or will in
the future read -books and magazines,
be listen to conversation, “break it down”
to its basic data, and translate foreign
languages.
What seemed to be incredible pre-

viously has already become actuality, if

only in experimental models, of these
} computers.
VITAL ASSISTANCE ON SPACE DATA

Electronic computers are at work in
our program of the International Geo-
physical Year, compiling masses of data,
particularly in connection with our pro-
gram in outer space.

The computers are at work in industry
where automation has ungoublediy
reached its highest point to date, in
electronically operated assembly lines.
' Then, too, electronically operated cleri-
\ cal operations are advancing productiv=-
ity, slashing costs, and thereby strength-
ening United States free enterprise.

Everyone who has ever seen these
2) 5 electronic marvels in operation, as I
> have, in the instance of Operation Van-

guard, comes away with a deep feeling

of awe at the incredible ingenuity in
devising and producing them and the al-
/ most fantastic memory systems. which
. the machines themselves represent.
Through their internal memory, the
machines file away, in a sort of elec-
tronic cubbyhole, data of unbelievable
complexity and volume which can there-
‘ after be utilized within split Seconds
whenever necessary.
ARTICLE IN WISCONSIN FARM BUREAU NEWS

Two articles in current periodicals
‘point out that electronic brains are at
work, as well, in the field of agriculture
and scientific research. Thus the May
© 1958 issue of the Badger Farm Bureau
dg News, published by the Wisconsin Farm
Bureau Federation in Madison, points
out how improvement of dairy herds is
being aided through data speedily com-
piled and processed by International
Business Machine electronic brains.
) The second article—far more signifi-
é cant—is from the March-April issue of
. the magazine Systems, published by
' Remington Rand Univac. It describes
‘ how, in the infinitely more important

 

field of the well-being of man, himself,
electronic brains are proving vital in
evaluating the results, in this instance,
of the testing of antibiotics.

WHY USE PEN AND INK IN MAGNETIC TAPE AGE?

Research leaders have been tremen-
dously impressed by the huge variety of
uses to which machine processing sys-
tems can be utilized’in bringing together
medical research data.

What would take hundreds, yes, thou-
sands of research man-hours painstak-
ingly to compile or retrieve can be ac-
complished speedily by electronic brains:

"Why use pen and ink or typewriter -

methods, recording on paper, when data
can be fed into magnetic drums for far
more expeditious use. 2

Moreover, in those areas of research
where time, particularly, is .of the es-
sence; where the battle for life may be
literally a matter of hours or days or
weeks. -installation of more electronic —
brains, carefully adopted, can make.all
the difference in the world.

So it is my hope that, in the great re-
search facilities of this land, in Wash-
ington, D. C., and Bethesda, in the
universities of the Nation, in-the private
and public laboratories, increasing atten-
tion will be devoted to utilizing funds,
wherever available, for the purpose of
putting additional electronic brains to
work as man’s servant and of utilizing to
the fullest the computers we already
POSSess. |

Naturally, overall costs must be cate-
fully weighed. But we must not lose
precious time.

I have utilized the words “electronic
brains.” Actually, these high-speed
computers are really giant slaves. They
will do what you tell them to do—what

~ you have instructed them to do. They

will remember past problems and their
solutions of past problems.
"HUGE SAVINGS POSSIBLE IN M, V. R. A,,
: AND OTHER PROJECTS

+ They can save you a fantastic number
of operations.

For example, you can feed informa-
tion into them as to the specifications |
that you want, let us say, for an air-
frame or for high-speed physics accel-
erator like the famous M. V. R. A. proj=

“ect IT am supporting.

Computer will report back that, given
the type of performance you want, a par-
ticular design would, or would not, work.
Thus, they can save you the enormously
costly job of building prototypes.

Computers have come a long way from
the relatively simple punchcard sys-
tems, which stored relatively small
amounts of information. Today, the
modern computer contains a fantastical-
ly large bank of storage data; plus the
instructions which you have fed into
them on how to proceed on that data.

WISCONSIN COMPANIES IN FOREFRONT

In my own State of Wisconsin are a
considerable number of enterprising
companies which are contributing very
significantly to the electronic-computer
industry.

Here, in our Nation’s Capital, many
companies are at work in supplying the
needs of Government agencies. The
usefulness of these machines in Govern-

as well.

- Bureau hails the advances that are being

. herd improvement (DHIA) to raise farm Ine Cie
come. aD

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE ~~. 8153

ment census-type statistical activities is
readily apparent. :

But, only®how are many agencies real-
izing that on virtually any complex,
voluminous subject where armies of
statisticians and mathematicians have
heretofore been necessary, the giant
electronic brain can prove indispensable.

Think, for example, how we can uti-
lize vital information in serving, let us
say, the medical needs of the service- -
men in our Nation's Veterans’ Adminis=
tration hospitals. Think of the untold
uses possible at the National Institutes
of Health—uses which, I am glad to say,
are already beginning to be realized.

I am no scientist and.I am no expert
on these computers, but I say that elec-

tronic computers represent a. revolution, ee

in fact, which can open up magnificent © zi

possibilities for the well-being of man.
We are fortunate that some of the

greatest engineering and mathematical =

minds of our land are already-at work
in this field, for example, the Associa-=
tion of Computing Machinery, the Insti-

tute for Radio Engineers, the American = 2 =
The ; z = on

Institute of Electrical Engineers;
alert National Science Foundation is ex=-
tensively supporting university com-
puter projects, and the National Bureau
of Standards has been extremely active,
There are also other enheart-
ening evidences that America intends to
be first in this vital field.

Thus, let us be sure we are in tune
and harmony with each of the four rev=
olutions to which I have referred—the
social, atomic, jet, and electronic revolu-
tions. :

I ask unanimous consent that both
articles to which I have referred be
printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the articles
were ordered to be printed in the REec-
ORD, as follows:

[From the Badger Farm Bureau News for
May 1958]

ELECTRONIC BRAIN SPEEDS Cow TESTING

Electronic brains are ready to give a big
boost to cow testing in Wisconsin. Farm

made and urges wider participation in dairy

There is a big job to be done ridding Wis-
consin of unprofitable cows. - Electronic coms
puting machines can get the job done faster.
Less than 10 percent of the cows have rec=
ords in some of our important dairy coun-
ties. Winnebago County does best in the
State with 27.8 percent on test.

Good dairymen know that testing is the
only sure way to find the least profitable
cows. Betsy, a 5,000-pound cow, will pay
you only $136 over feed cost; Flossie, pro=
ducing 11,000 pounds, will return you $272.
Betsy’s feed cost per 100 pounds of milk is
$2.72, says USDA; Flossie will give you 100
pounds for almost $1 less. |

Despite improvement, Wisconsin still has
too many Betsys. The State average for all
cows last year was 7,640 pounds. The aver-
age cow in DHIA, however, gave over a ton
more—9,767 pounds of milk, Testing and
culling pay.

There have been few changes In cow test-
ing since DHIA began 52 years ago. The
fieldman collects the samples, runs the Bab-
cock test, and figures out the record sheets—
if he has time. The owner-sampler system
came in with the manpower shortage of
World War II and now includes 71 percent of =
Wisconsin herds on test. About 88 farmers

——


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE ~~

- much the same.

~ Now automatic business

af the university are showing
over the job of figuring, zipping through
long columns of numbers in split seconds,

(IBM)

giving the right answers immediately.

Farmers can get latest tests back within 10
days. »
, The university feeps records for 238 herds

on a demonstration basis and is proving 4t

practical. How far IBM will go now toward
keeping more records and better records is
up to dairymen themselves.

Some explorations are being made to see
if a co-op can be set up to do the job. So
‘far nothing definite has appeared. The uni-
versity's demonstration project is scheduled
to end this summer.

“Maybe the time has come 'to review the
entire testing program and see if we can
devise a better one,” says E. E. Helzer, head
of dairy husbandry.

The way is long but it leads upward.
Wisconsin has 13.9 percent of its cows on
test, compared to 10.4 percent'in 1955.

[From Systems Magazine for March-April

: 1958] :

~ ELECTRONIC EVALUATION OF ANTIBIOTICS
(By Ben Kruse)

Machine accounting methods, are playing
an important role in a ‘series of medical
studies designed to speed scientific evalua~-
tion of the so-called “wonder” drugs.

The efficiency of these medical marvels has ,

been proven beyond dispute, but it is cer-
tainly common knowledge that penicillin, as
one example, does not work equally well
against all bacteriological infections and
that streptomycin is highly effective in some
cases, less effective in others. If reliable sta-
tistics could be developed covering experi
ence with each drug in a variety of circum-
stances, medical science would take a big
step forward.

One man, believed to be the first medical
researcher in the country to apply electronic
data-processing methods to the evaluation of
antibiotics, is making a strong ‘effort to pro-
vide these statistics. He is Dr, Sol Haber-
man, head of the Bacteriology and Immu-
nology Laboratories of the Department of
Pathology at Baylor University Hospital, Dal~
las, Tex. ”~

Dr. Haberman has already enjoyed a good
deal of success with his techniques. The
basis of his work is a continuing series of
studies covering all patients with bodily in-
fections either admitted to Baylor Hospital
or treated in its clinics.

Specimens are taken from the patient,
from which a culture of bacteria is grown
in Dr. Haberman's Laboratory. Spread
across a clear plastic plate containing nu-
trient agar, the growth of bacteria can be
observed by the technicians.

Onto this agar surface are then pressed
a series of tiny, round paper discs impreg-
nated with the 13 basic antibiofic drugs
that could be prescribed by physicians. The
reading of the test is fairly simple—the drug
specimen which develops the zones of inhi-
bition is doing the best job of killing the
germs,

VALUE OF TESTS ESTABLISHED

The value of such tests, which Dr. Haber-
man's department completes within 36 hours
after a patient is examined, has been proved
beyond any doubt. A series of control sta-
tistics were kept from 1951 to 1953. During
this time, the death rate was approximately
75 percent lower for patients treated on the
basis of these findings than for other cases.

From this, Dr. Haberman has gone on to
projects aimed at carrying these benefits
several steps further. Through the years,
the Baylor Hospital staff has performed more
than 6,500 such tests, enough to serve as
a valuable statistical sampling. Obviously,

-~

Rr bo 3 iE 3 i ’ Xa . ARE : { 2h
3 © weigh a day a month. Basic methods remain if charts could be developed showing thea SOUTH AMERICAN WIL]
NE — TOUR OF THE NEW YORK PHIL-

degree of effectiveness of 13 different anti-

biotic drugs on the 29 deadliest bacteria
ey can take known,

ey could be used as a guide by
doctors anywhere.

“Before these charts could be created, how-

ever, Dr. Haberman was faced with a dis-
tressingly practical problem—there simply
wasn’t time to do the necessary ari etic.
Obviously, the counting and sorting problem
is enormous, as witness just one phase of
the work:
Dr. Haberman is studying 29 separate types
of bacteria. These have to be evaluated for
13 drugs, resulting in 377 calculations. Then,
for each drug, there are 4 different degrees
of effectiveness, bringing the calculations to
1,408. To trace seasonal patterns, it is ad-
visable to compute the effects for each
month (16,896). Breakdowns should also be
made for illnesses among men and women,
for different parts of the body, and accord-
ing to the age of the patient. The compu-
tations runeasily into the hundreds of thou-
sands and even into millions.
To try to do this work by conventional
methods is all but unthinkable, especially
when the medical value of the staff people
who would have to tie up their time is con-
sidered. - More than that, the work would
require years of effort. By the time any
figures could be developed, they would be
outdated by new bacteriological reactions,
and new drugs which would be developed.
To be truly effective, the job must be done
quickly as well as accurately.

Dr. Haberman consulted with data-process=
ing specialists from Remington Rand's
Univac punched-card record services office
in Dallas. With their help, he developed a
system whicH promises to bring the valuable
charts into being in the near future.

Figures compiled in' the laboratory are
sent to the P-CRS office, where they are
punched into cards. A counting sorter in
his own office enables Dr. Haberman to sort
the cards at high speed into any desired
sequence. Computations can also be made
at high speed by P-CRS as necessary, reduc=
ing the mountain of statistics to manageable
proportions.

This work could well lead to an effective
method for monitoring the health of the
entire Nation. It offers twofold benefits:

1. It serves to keep score of diseases with
which mankind is currently plagued.

2. It will help alert the medical profession
to the influx of new germs before they multi-
ply to the point where they are dangerous.

National authorities who have reviewed Dr.
Haberman's methods are greatly encouraged
by the beginning he has made. He has con-
sulted with 3 good friend and associate, Dr.
Charles Cotterman of the Wadley Research
Institute, whose specialties are genetics and
statistics. They have worked out a plan
under which the work could go forward at a
greatly accelerated pace.

” PLAN TO USE COMPUTER

The doctors envisage working out the more
complex figures on the Univac 120 punched-
card electronic computer at the service bu-
reau. Preliminary discussions have already
established that the problems involved could
be worked out in short order, Dr. Haberman
has little doubt that the Univac could sig-
nificantly speed his work, to the benefit of
the Nation as a whole.

Spurred by the proven success of his work
at Baylor Hospital, Dr. Haberman is making
every effort to bring his long-sought compre-
hensive charts to reality. The only thing
that could stop him is the chronic shortage
of funds characteristic of almost every hos-
pital, and most research efforts. Given the
proper financial backing, however, he is con-
fident that he could make available a set of
vital statistics which would soon be reflected
in the speedier recovery of dndividuals in
every State of the Union, from a variety of
often baflling diseases.

§

J

HARMONIC ORCHESTRA

Mr. KEFAUVER. Mr. President, the
Iuckless visit of the Vice President to'

South America has received so much
attention in the press that most Amer-
icans are unaware of the present South
American goodwill tour of the New York
Philharmonic Orchestra and its con-
ductor, Leonard Bernstein. :

In contrast to the difficulties which
beset Mr. Nixon, the Philharmonic Or=
chestra has been received with out-
standing acclaim. It is interesting to
note that some of its greatest successes
have been achieved in cities in which
Mr. NixoN had the most violent of his
troubles. r

The New York Times on May 25 car-
ried an article by Carlos Moseby on the
Philharmonic’s mission. I ask unani-

- mous consent that this thought-provok-

ing article be printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows: ;

THE PHILHARMONIC HATH CHARMS—IT Has
PROVED ITSELF A CULTURAL EMISSARY IN
LATIN AMERICA

(By Carlos Moseley) \

LaAPaAz, Borivia—The first of the special
DC-6's transporting the New York Philhar-
monic swept down over the lower reaches
of Lake Titicaca past 20,000-foot snow-cov=-
ered peaks to the world’s highest commercial
airport ot La Paz, which has an elevation
comparable to Lhasa in Tibet. Several hun-
dred Aymara and Quechua Indians broke
away from the thousands at the airfield
awaiting the return of the former President
and surrounded the orchestra men, shouting
welcome.

Immediately a loudspeaker asked that no
shots be fired in greeting, lest crowds lining
the roadway leading to the city below might
think the airport was involved in the ex-
pected political uprising. Even before the
second Philharmonic plane arrived, the re-
volt flared. The Government declared a
state of siege and put La Paz under martial
law. Business came to a complete standstill.

Schools were closed and several cities fell :

temporarily into revolutionary hands.

In one spot, however, activity went on
uninterruptedly at a feverish pace. The Mu=
nicipal Theater was in the final stages of-
being rebuilt by the city for the Philhar-
monic’s visit. The plaza before it was paved
and the lamp posts were installed and cov-
ered with silver the next day. The opening
concert took place on schedule before a
packed, noisily applauding house, with the
President of the Republic, Hernan Siles Zu-
azo, in the center box.

This incident was another dramatic illus-
tration of the extraordinary journey of the
Philharmonic through South America where,
often coinciding with local disturbances or
tensions, the orchestra has been treated as
an’ emissary transcending strife; as one of
the most, if not the most important cultural
events of recent times, not to be missed for
any reason, and as an indelible bond be-
tween the countries visited and the United
States.

MILITARY RECEPTION

In Bogota, as another instance, the or-
chestra arrived on election day. It was the
first free election in a decade. Two days
after the crushing of a police revolt and the
release of Kidnaped members of the gov=
erning junta, the Philharmonic stage crew,
instruments and baggage, were met at the
gheater by bayonets and machine guns as

»

“part of the aftermath. Despite the stress

~

 

5

nls

” a re ~~

a ht yh a BLN


