.t T"

NATIONAL SCIENOE FOUNDATION
Washington 25, D.C°

FOR PRESS AND RADIO, NSF-165 FOR RELEASE
Telephone: STerling 3-2140 MONDAY A.M. PAPERS
Extension 3381_ SEPTEMBER 10, 1956

NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION ANNOUNCES GRANTS
IN SUPPORT_OF COMPUTATION CENTERS

The first in a series of grants in support of computation
centers and research in numerical analysis were announced today
by Alan T. Waterman, Director of the National Science Founda-
tion. Grants totaling $135,500 have been awarded as follows:
California Institute of Technology, $38,000; Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, $39,990; Oregon State College, $20,000;
gniversity of Washington,"$17,5003 University of Wisconsin,

30,000. \

The funds will be variously used to establish the nucleus
for a computing center where none exists, to extend existing
centers, and to pay rental for computing time. In some
instances part of the funds will be used for salaries of re-
search assistants.

The Foundation's program is designed to strengthen basic
research in a number of fields by providing research invest-
igators access to computing facilities. Only a few large com-
puting centers around the country are available for basic
research problems and these generally on a part-time basis
only. Most computers are busy on a round~the-clock schedule on
industrial problems and problems related to defense contracts.
The general—purpose university computing laboratory does not
have sources of support for basic research-at present. Founda-
tion assistance will help to establish or strengthen such
general—purpose research laboratories.

Commenting on the Foundation program in support of com—
puting research, Dr. Waterman said: "The electronic digital
computer has been growing in importance as a major research tool
since World War II. The art of high—speed computation has now
progressed to the point where many scientists feel that further
progress in their fields will be seriously affected by access to
the techniques and facilities for computation. At least two
obstacles must be overcome in making theoretical advances in
scientific research: formulation of adequate conceptual models
of a natural process, and calculation of anticipated observa—
tions in a particular instance of the process.

"Recent experimental advances in physical and engineering
sciences have made previously relevant linear mathematical-