1044 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

reflections in the top and bottom surfaces.** The image solution must then
be combined with the potential distribution on the wall of an infinite elliptical
cylinder. e R

The method of showing the potential distribution over the thorax described
above is, in my opinion, preferable to plotting the equipotentials on the thorax.
The former method is much easier and quicker and it provides as much infor-
mation as the latter. In addition, the errors of measurement tend to be
averaged out by drawing a smooth curve through the points. Furthermore,
when one has the distribution of potential at several levels around the thorax,
one has in hand a large part of the data necessary to obtain the horizontal
component of the resultant dipole moment of the heart.** Tt is necessary only
to multiply the potential at each point on the thorax by a factor proportional
to the chest contour at that point and then to integrate the product around
the chest. The curve obtained by plotting potential against distance along
the chest has been calied the “chest-lead diagram.”® This type of display is
deservedly becoming more popular;*’** since time is fixed and “space” or dis-
tance is used as the variable.

By using a chest belt with a number of small electrodes (1 cm. diameter)
close together (FIGURE 19) and high amplification and resolution in the record-
ing equipment, it is often possible to obtain evidence of local excitation, or
additional dipole components, in the chest-lead diagrams.®® FIGURE 20 shows
the potential distributions around the chest of a normal male subject at the
mid-ventricular level for three different instants of time during the QRS com-
plex. The time 0.5 R would correspond to the peak of the R wave in lead 2.
Local excitation processes are shown by lack of smoothness of these curves or
by the presence of dips and peaks in the curves. The potential-gradient
curves are particularly sensitive to local processes. The bottom curves show
a marked second-dipole component.

From the tank data and from theoretical considerations one can say that, if

 

F}GURE 19. Eleqtrode belt. The electrodes are chlorided silver, 1 cm. in diameter. The
spacing at the front is 2.5 cm. between centers.

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1045

   
   

+1.2
Time=.I8R Potential V

+.6 Potential Gradient E
mvzem.

  
 
 

TIME=.40R

 
   
 

RIGHT

   

00 775°
Distance around chest—CM.,

      

-50 -40 : +io 95—
% 0

+1.5T+.3 Potential Grodient E

Potential V mWecm,
Time =1.0R mv,

 

- FIGure 20. Potential distribution around the thorax at the mid-ventricular level at 3
different instants of time (G. B. 10/7/51).