Miinutes of Meeting of Coummittee
on Machine betnods of Computation -2-
November 29, 1950

other tihree cases - Hzmu, Verzuh and Dolansky - it was felt
that we should talk the matter of speciflc appointments for

supervisory committees over with Professor Brown at the next
meeting.

It was suggested that the gqualifying exaumination in
Mathemaztics be examined, in tne suaue way that the Electrical
Engineering examlnation was discussed, at the next meeting of
this Committee. Consequently, the subject of the qualifying
examination for persons coming in to this field from the
Mathematics Department 1s to be the first subject of dis-
cussion at the meeting on December 6. It is hoped that Pro-
fessor Brown can come in to discuss the E. E. questions &fter
ten o'clock.

Another subject for future discussion is the guestion of
a Summer Symposium. Mr, Forrester reported that, in hdis
opinion, thls coming Summer would be & little too ezrly to
put on & full-fledged Summer scunedule on macinine conmpubtation.
On the other nand, it was felt that there was a possibility
tnat a one~, two-, or three-day session or symposium on the
subject could be neld. Since this does not require the
elaborate preparation which & full-fledged Sumuer Session re-
quires, it was decided tnat we should not reacin & decision at
this meeting but should bring it up from time to time in the
next several months. It was also decided that the guestion of
the courses on machine computation, which are given at present
at tiie Institute and the possibilities of other courses wiich
snould be given, would be taken up in the near future, perhaps
at the December 13th meeting. Anotiner subject of considerable
importence whnicih would nave to be teken up &«t that time or
later wlll be the listing of the various computing machines
at present operating and under construction at the Institute,
and a survey of their aveailability for training and general
research use, This sort of survey will be necessary beforse
general policy on this qguestion can be discussed,

The next meeting of the Committee will be at 9:30,
December 6, in Room 6-109.

2o Mhes.
P;f%ig?ﬁ;}E:?ée;““““‘*-\

Chairman