20

of complete repetitions, it’s usually not worth carrying
out the calculation. It could be carried out by machine,
however, for the reliability of the answer would be very
much greater and it would involve very much less tim.e
to repeat the calculations for a check. In addition, it 1s
possible to program internal checks, which can spot
many possible errors as the work progresses.

This reliability, especially in the storage unit, hgs
only recently been achieved; at present the magnetic
core storage units are superior, but ferroelectric devices
might eventually compete or surpass them. Ordinary
vacuum tubes make up the usual arithmetic unit; tran-
sistors will certainly help to reduce size and power re-
quirements, when they can be used without sacrifice of
speed or reliability.

But I said I didn’t intend to boast of future possi-
bilities. What I want to do is to discuss some of the
shortcomings of present digital computers and then, by
means of a series of examples, each with a moral at-
tached to it, to indicate some of the ways we can ex-
ploit the computer’s good points and obviate some of
its deficiencies. I'll spend my time, as I have so far,
discussing the behavior of the really big machines, the
megabuck jobs, for here both advantages and short-
comings are more apparent.

HE major shortcomings of today’s electronic calcu-

lators are in part instrumental and in part pro-
cedural. In the first place, the arithmetic and the stor-
age portions of the computer have outstripped the other
parts, the input and output units, in reliability, speed,
and versatility. The input unit—the link between the
written instructions from the person desiring the solu-
tion and the sequence of signals in the internal storage
which tells the machine how to produce the solution—
is less satisfactory. It is relatively slow and compli-
cated and usually requires transposing the original in-
structions to card or tape by human means. Each such
transposition may produce errors, errors not easy to
guard against by internal checks.

This lack of simplicity and flexibility in the input
equipment is a more serious handicap when it comes to
using the computer to process experimental data. Many
large-scale installations for experimental research al-
ready have special-purpose computers attached. But if
the connection between the electrical or optical measur-
ing device and the punched tape or card could be sim-
plified, a great deal of the reduction and statistical
analysis of data could be carried out on a general-pur-
pose computer in a routine manner. It is to be hoped
that more versatile input equipment will be developed
in the near future, which will allow these potentialities
to be realized.

Still more inadequate, as compared to the central
units of the machine, is the output equipment. If the
results can be given in terms of relatively few numbers,
the present output is not too unsatisfactory; the result
can be displayed on a cathode-ray scope or punched or
printed on a card almost as quickly as the machine can
carry out a thousand or so elementary operations. But

 

if the results involve large lists of numbers, we reach
the absurd situation where it takes much. more time to
get the answer out of the machine than it does for the
machine to compute the answer in the first place.

We can often free the rest of the machine for other
work, while this slow transcription is taking place, by
employing a sequential procedure. We first run the an-
swer out on magnetic tape and then, on an auxiliary
machine, go from magnetic tape to punched paper tape
or card and this, then, finally goes to the tabulator or
automatic typewriter, which prints a table we can use.
The disadvantages of this multiple sequence of opera-
tions in inconvenience and loss of reliability are obvi-
ous. In some machines one can go from magnetic tape
direct to printer, but any machine involving mechani-
cal printing is slow compared to the rest of the com-
puter.

It is also possible to program the machine so it will
print the answer in digital form on the surface of a
cathode-ray tube, where it can be photographed at a
rate of about one page of figures per second. This at
least has the advantage of directness of path from the
inside of the machine to the pages of numbers, but the
photographic copies produced by this method at pres-
ent fall far short of any reasonable standards of legi-
bility and typography which one might place on nu-
merical tables for general use. Future developments
probably will improve this procedure, both as to speed
and clarity. But at present, if one wishes to use the re-
sults more than a few times, the photographs are usu-
ally transcribed by hand to a more legible form, which
procedure, of course, introduces possible errors and
takes additional time.

The lack of flexibility, speed, and clarity of the out-
put unit is still more apparent when we wish to display
the answer in nondigital form, such as a graph or dia-
gram. A well-drawn graph should be readable to one
thousandth of the full range of scale, giving three sig-
nificant decimal digits. A graph on the face of the
usual cathode-ray tube, however, can hardly be read to
better than two significant digits. Certainly a great
deal of work is required before the output equipment
begins to approach the present storage and arithmetic
units in speed, reliability, and versatility.

These deficiencies are not too serious, however. Many
of them will be remedied in the near future and most
of them are not noticed by the occasional user of the
machine, are not very apparent unless one is asking the
utmost from the machine. A much more serious dis-
ability is not so easy to overcome, for it is inherent in
the very nature of the machine; to ask that it be done
away with is like aslging to have the fun of swimming
th}.xout the nuisance of getting wet. This bottleneck to
rapid machine use, this barrier which every new user

r?uslg learn to surmount, is the process of programming
itself.

S? OU see, although the central parts of the really
fast ‘machine, the high-speed storage and arith-
metic units, are remarkably rapid and reliable, they

PHYSICS TODAY