MITCC-2 | M. 1. 7. Computation Center
Minutes ¢f February 14, 1936 Heeling

Persons Present: D. N. Arden P, M. Horse
G. T. Bunter ¥. M, Verzuh

Morse briefly reported on the status of applications for research and
associateships, and particularly mentioned his correspondence with Bates College,
Bennington College, University of Maine, University of Massachusetis, and
University of Vermont, respectively. The letter from Mr. A. M. White, IBM
Corporation, to Dean Soderberg was brought up, and it was agreed that Hunter
would familierize himself with this matter and handle further negotiations
directly with Dean Soderberg.

Hunter briefly repoftéd'on his visit to the University of Connecticut and
his discussions with Messrs. Kochenberger and L8f of the Electrical Engineering
Department. : |

In the discussion of the two-week 704 training course which is 1o be offered
at M.I.T., the following jteme were agreed ypon.

1. DATE: The course will be held during the period August 20-31, 1956.

2. TEACHING STAFF: Lectures Problem Sections
<
D. Arden, MIT S. Best, MIT
E. Kopley, IBM Mrs. Caldwell, 1BM
F. Verzuh, MIT F. Helwig, MIT

A. Siegel, HIT
A. Zabludowsky, MIT
I.. Nihen, MIT
, JBM
3. DORMITORY: H. K. Dow indicated that either the Graduate House or Baker
would be available at a cost of $3.50 per day. '

4. CLASSROOM: Sloan (Bldg. 52) —-— major room (90) and 6 problem section rooms.

5. APPLICATIONS: A letter of application containing the following information:
Nanme, Title, Mathematic and Computing Background, Academic
Degrees, Programming Experience, Particular Interest, is to
be approved by the Liaison Representative and returned to
M.I.T. by May 1, 1956

Morse is to make necessary arrangements regarding Iiems 3, 4, and 5, respectively.

Verzuh discussed the present status of our 704 library of subroutines and it
was suggested that another letter be sent to Greenstadt requesting missing numbers.
The best method for obtaining early access to the UAC-SAP routines was mentioned.

After a brief discussion of the appropriate time for the next meeting of the
Institutional Representatives it was agreed that this meeting should be held at
12:30 p.m on Friday, March 2, 1986.

The next meeting of this group wili be held in Room 6-109 at 2 p.m. on
Tuesday, February 21, 1956.
F. M. Verzuh
FMV :nb February 15, 1956