any-“mutt [mint nu I‘l.x'rlo.\ immm I.
Vol. III, .
I‘rin/ul m I .

  
   

Editorial

Research in Electrocardiography

HE application of laws which govern

the ﬂow of electric currents in tissues

to the excitation of heart muscle has
led to the discovery that many fundamental
principles of electrocardiography were clearly
formulated long before facilities to express
them by experimental means had become
available Lately, the easy access to electro—
cardiographic instrumentation has occasiom
ally reversed the proet s of deductive reason-
ing. There is a tendency in electrocardiographie
research to adopt rules made to ﬁt experi-
mental observations and to consider geometric
teaching devices as scientific proof. It should
be stressed that (a) the primary gathering of
experimental data, both from human subjects
and from animals, is a nece ry prerequisite
to th» advance of clinical electrocardiography,
and that (b) it is equally essential to engage in
the analysis of mathematical concepts for the
solution of practical problems. Both types of
research are nec ary if cmpiricism is to be
replaced by scientific knowledge. The paper
by the Wilson school‘ on the pre )rdial electro—
cardiogram may bc cited as a clas 'cal example
of the first kind; Baylov’s papc ' on certain
applications of modem clectrtwardiographic
theory, as an cxamplc of the second. In the
former, cxpcrimcntal information related to
clinical elcctrticardiography is prcscntcd with
a minimum amount of spcculat ive bac,

 

 

 

 

'ound.
in the second, ccrtain rclcvant aspects of theo-
retical physics arc analyzed to formulatc an

'23]

For to travel hopefully is a. better thing than
to arrive, and the true success is to labor
R. L. Stcvcnson‘“

eleetroeardiographie theory using a minimum
of illustrative experiments.

The analysis of the form of the action cur-
rent of the heart has to consider three funda-
mental rescarch areas, (a) the electrochemical
properties of the excitable cell and cell ay, ‘re-
gates which represent the source of the action
current, (17) the ﬂuid volume conductor
properties of the thorax (a structure of ques-
tionable homogeneity) and (c) the influence
of the boundary of the thorax (skin and
subcutaneous tissues) which defines the con-
ductor (b) as one of limited dimensions and
may, thereby, alter the distribution of elec-
trical currents at the body surface, Corre—
sponding to these three areas, three outstatntling~
contributions may he cited, all published
before 1890,H which offered a mathematical
treatment for these basic components of
electrocardiographic analysis Knowledge of
their existence, if not a detailed study, should
be of importance to those interested in the
bioclectric phenomena of the heart.

“1(th l’nocinrrrias
Excrmmir: CELL

’l‘ma EImc'ruocmr or To E

 

A hypothesis advanced by Bernstein" as~
sumes that the source of bioelcctric currents
is located at the boundary between the insi(l(
of the cell and its surroundings, and that this
boundary has the characterist' s of a semi~
permeable membrane. .\cross the membrane
some ions pass freely, others arc held back

 

('ur'ulotzun [fl‘ltlﬂll 1i. \‘uiumr II], ”no um


EDITORIAL

32 -
2 is established be
tic charges which
inbrane

and a resting equilibrium1
tween diffusion and (/lect'rt).e of the me
results in the inner surla<
carrying negative (llﬂlge ,1 1,10 [may mem—
sitive charges. Such a (etc 0d ’1,
0 I i . ' “ z 'r, . _
firm: is r erred to as [JO-l1”) wermd “41th
“The ti st basic problem is It or Mam. ﬁber
i " tie c‘ t .
‘ ‘ tential of . vm;
embrant, po ‘ . . d m H
lih‘clfln This has now been iecoido theme“,
”58 I 7'9 V the potential exrstinp [1 e"
D. 7 tside of the resting 1)
‘* en measured by
The trans—
cell

 

and in ric
the inside and the on . 'h
ranges from 80 to ilzgsli‘cnllnlm
0' i 5 ca illai'y rrnc~ ~ . ‘ . '39
bilinbrariir potential of wa 5:113:51; ﬁlteriielem‘o-
(1h?elli*l:l()dliiiljdlt‘erijcioiibf the membrane‘itjgl
(waTither it is neutral, acid or basilc iiiﬂrlrlzir i: m:
on the ionic concentrations of t1:i (m their
both sides of the membrane, an ‘ Hummus
electrochemical activities (ionic comic further
and eleetromotive force). This ma)

speciﬁed by stating that the potential tiller”

' 'v n are
enees measured by a capillary electrode

the result of electromotive forees9occt1i'r'pli:
(1) within the interior solution, (jihat the
inner membrane boundary, (3) \H in .‘le
membrane itself, (4) at the outer mein iiaim
boundary, and (5) iii the exterior solutipni,
What is measured may be considered large y
a diffusion potential expressing ‘ﬂow o ions
and of neutral molecules, but-rt is turtheif
complicated by the almost ce Iainypresenco o
an “active transport mechanism (at least
for the Na ion) by which is meant the move-
ment of an ion “up hill” against the c ectro-
cherrrical gradient.

The basic considerations of diffusion poA
tentials were expressed for liquid junction
boundaries of solutions containing diTerent
conoenti'atiolis of electrolytes by Max Planck
in lStlll‘ as

 

(I) ,V 7 [er I}:

_ ('2

~ [1" log c l' I,‘

where Ii’ exprc. es the gas constant, ’I' the
absolute temperature, F the Faraday equiv -
lent, and a the valency of the diffusion ions.
(V aird l' define ionic mobility in watt of
cation and anion respectively, the sub. I'ipts
denoting these. values for the two sides of the

 

il-

 

 

.. 0 Recent theoretical work on mern~
membralltr-11mlS and ionic. fluxes is based
brane~ PUV‘BI " this fundamental equation, with
essenmllllfOrinnla expressing the general 139‘
1)lm.wksof0pun-Lion potentials presumably
hmifliable to living cms Sixty Mats before
aDIJhi:gmsumncn1s could he made from cardiac
Silt! ‘-‘

 

tissue in situ.

TION’ on Erim‘TrtIcAL CURRENTS

Coxot‘orons or Ixrrmn
EXTENT

DISTRIBI'
[N VOLUME

The laws which define the flow of currents
' h nouenous voltimc conductors of inﬁnite
1“ roi lijave long been applied to electro.
(”d-(3l ire hie concepts and, though never
02“ N141" xv d by Einthoven, were
We’ll-:33 “(eff known to him and form the
223:1 for ihis geometric analysesh'l'he .0033:
of a dipole layer (the ba s ‘of t e inei‘nnts i“
theorv) and of the distribution of :tll‘le 1 mad
volume conductors were clearly. 1)o'rrgiua' of
by Helmholtz in 185252 I'lis-consiroia minim.
the general aspects of (the distribultionho‘dred
electric currents were timely euoug i a at 1 is
vears later to form the basis tor an will];
of an centric dipole in a homogenops rtrieuind-
by Wi son and Bayley” aird to lay Pei-10 ﬁeld
work for a modern electrocardifrﬁiapiic m
theorv by MeFee and Johnston.“ 1 hese pap in
have-analyzed the Helmholtz contribution
delilfla volume conductor of inﬁnite extentt, 1::
potential, during activity, at some disarme
from a membrane may be expressed )3
relation”

(2a) l7 : 4’32

 

and since the electrical effects of the bowl “I;
a whole rnav be considered the sum 01.:
individual cell membrane effects. the EXP!”
sion may be written

(2b) 1' : ms:

4) here expresses the “dipole moment”. (lil‘ﬁﬁ:
times distance) which exists across the (01‘1”
iayer of the membrane. It. is consideredjlld lrv
(at, £2 expresses the solid anal“ Summit“? i
the inernln'anc at a point 1’}. SI therefor v“?
dependent on the distance if) ”f I) from

 

 

ﬁ

EDITORIAL

boundary of the dipole layer of the membrane,
and on the angle 6 between the outward nor—
mal and (1'). For a single, charged membrane
element (15‘, the expression becomes:

 

(3a) (It) 2 i K: ”((3.

 

C‘alculatious of this sort assume that the merri—
brane concept is a correct one for which there
is ample evidence. 1’ is assumed to be located
within a homogeuous conductor which sur~
rounds the polarized membrane and is of in»
finite. extent. The relation of the potential
re irded at the distant point I) to the
exrsting‘ at the actual surface of thc
is what is brieﬂy symbolized as
cerned with (b).

value
membrane
52 and is con—

Trrn EFFICt‘T or FINITIG Bot‘NDanrns ox
(‘r'irnnxr Disrruru'riox lN Vermin?

CONDI'CTURS

llclniholtz also dcs ‘ibed a special case of
ﬁnding: the potentials of a known cloctromotive
force in a spherical conductor. The theorems
proposed by him allow the formulation

 

(3b)

 

front which (3a) has been derived. It

applies
to a dipole ‘

atcd centrally within a sphere
and surrounded by an infinite medium. The
potential recorded from a point located within
a limited spherical surface (l'i) may be
as

(-t) W : r15 cos 19<l + 2r),

 

given

r“ IT“

where r is the distance of the dipole from I’,
It’ the diameter of the sphere. This des 'isz
a situation applicable to finite boundaries,
and was developed with reference to Ein-
thovens equations by C‘raib and (‘antield.“
The inﬂucncc of various shaped boundaries on
the distribution of currents within the enclosed
s stern of the chest is obviously of considerable
interest to those concerned with measuring:
cardiac action currents from the surface of
the body. In a paper by C. \i. Nelson in this
Issue,” the striking; alterations in current flow

 

233
in the presence of a boundary are
demons
layer cl
to es

graphically
itod by the use of Boothroyd’s doulrle
ectrolytic tank.16 In the past, in order
blish a ﬁrm basis for a theory of the
electrocardiogram, the effects of boundaries
were conveniently neglected since apparently
no easy mathematical approach to this com-
plicating nuisance was on hand. Nelson points
out that the mathematical solution has been
available since 1845. This was clearly expr‘e ed
by Lord Kelvin,* by his method of electrical
images for the solution of boundary prob-
lems in highly conducting liquids.“ A lucid
des 'iption of his doctrine, as given by his
biographer is appended. The image concept
was known to Wilson and is mentioned in a
paper from his laboratory” but it seems to h
cs aped general attention.
of fundamental
method for sol

   

   

 

ave
Nelson’s paper is
interest since it shows a
ving boundary problems in
electrocardiography, at least for straight line
boundaries and for hounduri s of a circular
plane. It should be added that Thomson car-
ried the problem further for the solution of
the effects of boundaries of a sphere, but it
was W. . I. Hick ‘i who apparently ﬁrst pub-
lished a complete anal s of spherical bound
aries in 1880." .»\ccordingr to Hicks, the image
of an electrical source X located within a
sphere of radius If at a distance 11 from its

 

   

center is a source X1 at the distance £1
a line of sinks reading from the image source
X‘ to infinity.

A single observation ruay be cited which
points to the practical significance of considera~
tions of this l’ind: .\ zero point of reference,
the ideal pos ion for an ideal indifferent elec-
trode, has always been considered to be lo—
cated halfway between the source and sink
of a dipole. it is not so located if the boundary
is taken into account.

, and

This brief discussion should bring to mind
again the fact that the basic laws of electricity
developed during; the [9th century are ap-
plicable to a the< of electi'ocardiop;raphy
today in other disciplines, 1' ch in this
field ht its roots in the past from which

 

  
 

 

 

 

*Sir \V‘ lianr ’l‘lronrpsorn Baron Kelvin ot' Lal'gs


W

EDITORIAL

23-1

ceaselessly into the branches

 

nourishment i"
and leaves of present day labors.
Hal ll. HECHT

 

APPENDIX

 
 

ei'pt from Silvamis Pi Thompson: The Life
of William Thomson, Baron Kelvin of L
London. Machiillan, 1910, voL l, p. 151» .
The doctrine of electric images, several times
mentioned, seems to have been in Thomson‘s mind
before he left Cainhridp> but it developed itself
with surpr ing rapidity during h, ,oiourn in lai ,
and , ortlv after his return to Cambridge he coni-
municatedi it to Liouville in three letters, the sub-
stance of which was printed in the Journal de
matliematiqiies in October 18-15 and June 1841).
This method, which even now is not adequately
appreciated, is so elegant, and so fruitful in its
' tions, that it merits some attention from
the ientilic reader. It furnishes a most cogent
illustration of the value of that which has been
aptly termed the cm »fertilization of the s<ienees,
the value of introduc into one branch of science
the concepts that hay ‘ 'isen in another. To explain
the concept of electi images, it may be well to
begin with a concr re and familiar case of optical
images. 1‘} ry one knows that if a candle is placed
in front of an ordinary plane mir r, the, image of
it, seen by looking into the mirror, is, as it were,
another candle of equal size and briglitn with the
fi it, situated apparently exactly as far behind the
mi or as the ieal candle is in front. In fact, if the
mirror were to be removed from its frame, and a
second candle set in the position where the image
prev ‘ly appeared, the amount of illumination
recciied at any given point in front of the mirror
from the two candles would be identical with the
amount received from the one candle and its image.
The limitations of the frame would prevent the
image. or the substituted nlle, from he g seen
from ev ' direction. If the n ->r be, conceived to
be indeﬁnitely evtended, and 1 frame to be in»
ﬁnitely wide and high, these limi .itions would he
removed. If, instead of a plane mirror, a spherical
mirror or silver ball were substituted, the image of
a candle l tced in front will appear to be a smaller
candle situated now within the spherical surface,
and at a distance behind the silvered face not equal
to the distance of the candle in front, but nearer to
the face. The apparent size aml distance of this
image can be calculated by easy geometrical rules;
and again it will be true that if the mirror be re
moved, and there, be substituted an equivalent
smaller candle in the place where the image ap-
pc. 'ed, the illumination at any point in front will
remain nnalteied by such substitution.
Now, consider a small insulated conducting
body, such as a small metal sphere, charged with

 
 
 

.i i.

   

      

 

   

   

   

 

 

   

 

 

 

   

 
  

 

 

 

positive electricity. If placed in the. middle of a
large empty l'thlil‘lt‘Wlll proiect its influence him
he space around it in radial straight lines, acting
as though the. electric charge upon it were concen.
trated at its ~entre. Now suppose a very large sheet
of upper, or some other good. conductor of elec:
ti-i ty, to be pl 'ed at the side of the charged
sphere at a short r taiice lrom i Tt can be. shown
tiat, for all points of the leIH'e “1 ”UM (if this
sicet, the sheet acts as an electric mirror; the
effects in this region being the same as if, in the
ace of the sheet, there had been a second
ged sphere placed exactly as liiil‘.1‘lelilllll the
ieet as the actual sphere is in front of it. But there
is this curious peculiai ' that in order to procure
an equivalent effect this image splicre’ would have
to be charged with an equal quantity of negative
cectricity. The ‘iniag'e' of a positive charge is a
negative one, and vice versa. If we suppose the
sieot removed and the ‘image’ replaced by a small
:ctiial sphere. negatively electrified to an equal
(egrec, the s -ice betneen and around the slilit‘l'es
will be traversed by a system of curved lines of
ecctric force emanating from one and terminating
at the, other. If we remove the second sphere and
replace the sheet, the lines of fOlT , in front, emanat—
ing from the pos' ive sphere will still curve round
exactly as before until the reach the sheet. The

 

 

     

   

:11)
(

 

   
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

si t will, in fact, receive (by induction) a negative
t g ; and this charge will be distributed over its
so ice at irding to a certain law, the density of
tie charge being strongest at the, point of the

surface nea' st to the sphere, and weaker over the
surface outw: ds from this center. This ase illus»
trates not merely the conception of eleeti image. ,
but also the much more refined conception which
Thomson had arrivez‘l at in 1842 (and Green before
him) of the replacing of an electrified body or point
by an electric charge distributed over a surface in
such a w s, to he in equilibrium. If, to take
another c . the positive electric point charge is
placed in front of a large uninsiilated metal sphere.
to act as a spherical mirror, there will again be an
electric ‘iinage’ formed within the sphere. and this
‘imagc’ will be negative; but its distance behind
the reflective suiface will not be equal to the dis-
tance, of the electric ‘object' in boot; and though
simple rules can be given for finding the position
and magnitude of the electric ‘iniage'. tlicse rul :
differ from those for the finding of the conjugate
images in opt' .\n electrical image is. then, an
electrilicd point. or system of points. on one side
of a surface, which would produce on the other
side of that sn ' c the Millie electii 1 action which
the actual electi iation of that siii ace really does
produce. The method of images can bc exteinlcd to
many applications. Foi instance, if an elcctrilicd
point is situated betwecn two parallcl conducting
sheets, not only will it generate a prim: _\'

 

   
     

   

 

 

     

 

‘imagc’

   

 

EDITORIAL

in each sheet, but each primary image will gen“

:1 secflll‘l‘“ iiiiag‘c of it If in the other sheetbidte
these will generate tor y images, and so (iii 3 dim
inﬁnite row, exactly a a luminous point m M]
tween two mutually facing mirror'
electi' I
superp

   

  
  

does he.

, . The resi '
latribiitioiis can be calculated livlltlli:

(in of the distributions equivalent t
the s essivc members of the s was. Again if 0
elem ed point is placed anywhere betweeii ta‘n
indefinitely extended planes that meet one anotfm'
like the two leaves of a shcet of paper there \f'efl
be a number of imalgt‘S symmetricallyisituatedl'f
the angle botwccii the planes s 90° or 60° or uni»
integral fraction of 3fi(1°. This, as Thomson point ‘1
out. is the analogue of the optical tov called tlef
krleirlnccuic. Further, if two electrified sober 9
that are not small are brought near to one a'niritlieiiiS
reacting on one another’s charges so that the dis1
tribution of charges over the spheres is distorted
out of uniformity, the distribution of the cliarrres
and the resulting force of attraction or repulsion
can be calculated by considering the whole effect
as a succession of images that are superposed on
one anotlioin

   

   
  
  

 

ltEFlYRlCNH‘Ih‘

‘PLANCK, .\l.: Ueber die Potentialdil‘ferenz
zwischcii zwei verdiinntcn Lﬁsuiigeii biiiz'irer
Electrolyte. Ami. d. 1‘1 ii. ('hein., Veiie
Folge, 40: 5131, 18510.

QHELMHOL'IU, \‘()N H.: Uebcr einige Ge. tze
dei‘ Vertheihuig elolt clier Stream in Ki‘ir-
perlicheii Leitorn, mit Anwenduiig auf die
tliierrelelttrischeu ‘ uclie. .\ini. d. Phys. u.
Chem. 89: 211, :.i., 19

JTuonsox, \\'. (Lord Kel

 

   

 

 

  
    
 

n): Reprints of
. on Electrostatics and Magnetism.
Ed. 2, London, Macalillaii, IRS-l.

' 4 , l". N, JOHNS’HN, 17. l) Ito EACH,
F. i, l‘iltlANGElt, H. Kos. ‘, (K E,
lll‘ECH’l', 11. H., Corina, N DE UL]\'1‘IIY{;\,KL,
St nsi, It. BARKIII', l’, : The prccorilial

. electrorarlliog‘i'am. .\in. Heart J. 27: l9, 1944.

"BAYLEY, It. 11.: (in certain applications of

modern cloctrocardiographic theory to the

interpretation of clertrocariliograms which

indicate myocardial discaso. Am. Heart J.

 

   
   

 

  

   

l‘Ilcl;trobiologic. Die \‘1‘ 'en-
Naniiiilung naturii ,iischiiltliclier

 

  
   
    
   
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
 
  

235
and niatheiiiatiscli

Braunscliweig

er Monograpliien. 2-l. Heft.
' \Voooiit'in', L. .\,

VIiLeweg and Son, 1912.
”Hwy R , l [(iiIiIi H. AND (‘iiiiis'ro-
. '. mirane rest' Y
ﬁlmigiofiiiﬁleeiitfiﬁls of single cai'ilizicmiiiiiff‘lii
. I) , .' . i
164; 307, 1951‘ 1,, \entiirlet Am. J. Pliysiol.
“Danna, _\1. Hi
resting and ac
an inti'acelliil
(4,1951i

 

    

  

AND \l'nni Ht ("oil

4 l .. . lﬂC
Ition poten i ‘(il'tletl with
in electiode. J. Physiol. 115:

 

" Horrnn p F ,
ti . . . and because, L}, E . . . ,
of intact in: -- (ellnlai

potentiz l .
. iin ; 4 . .
. m,‘ 170: 357, 1952iiiiliin limits .\in.

N. F. H., EviiiNG

\I. .l.: The Kinetic ,BHi
BIOI‘lgli New York 11'
chapter 11. ’

”11.111 » , F. N b BAYL
tric ﬁeld of an excentrlc dipole in a 1107

mogeiious spherical conductiiiw medium (‘ir-
culation 1: 84, 1950. h '

”McFi-iis, R. AND .lom'
oardiograpl’ lea

m .1953; 9: 255, 868, 1 ,

11 itsoN, F. N. \l to», A. U. AND Banana.
1. 5.: The ( ihiitioii of currents of action
and of injury displayed by be: t muscle
and other excitable tissues. l'nii Mi 1
Pi" ‘ University of Michigan Stiidi i
til'ic i ' 10: 193-1

“CHAIR, \V. H. AND CA Flaw, ll: ,\ study of
the electric field "minding active heart
muscle. Heart 14: Tl, 1927.

‘5 N15 .oN, C, V.: The effectof the ﬁnite, houiidaiv
on potential distributions in volume can:
ductois Circulation Research 3: 236, ll) ,

mBoo'riiiiovi) r\,lt., (‘uii iv, E. (K; n l‘lA Mt,

lytic tank for the measurcinent
of ste- l_v».~tate response, t' 'ient rcsponsc.
and allie 1 properties of netwoi s,J. Inst. lilec
Eng. 96: 163, 19-19.

17 I’m'rr'r, R. D. so VALENCIA, l".: The iinn

 
  

 
      

~ of Molecul
iley and Sons, 1

dsis

 

       

3 R. H.: The elec-

 

ov, F. 1).: Flectro~
Circulation 8: 554.

 

 
  
 

   

 
 

 

     
 

cien»

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

      

   
  

ate electron.riliogi'aphi effects of l‘il’t‘llliir
'bczl myocardial injiii'ic i\ni lleart J., 32:

 
 
 
  

, 19-16.

‘5 l-lic ,\\'. \l,: (in the motion f 1.\\(i,\‘|ili(\i'(\_\' i”
:1 Hold. Tr. [to Soc, 171 ' 1830.

”Si soy, lttL . ill)fil"lt1!), \' ginibus l’uei'»
is'pic and other l’apcis. New Yorli. lH‘crilincr,
1907. p. 170,


