K————

“—" To: Professor P. M. Morse
From: herbert Teaser

Subject: Integration of Remote Console - Time Shared 7090 System
Operation into MD I. T‘s Educational Facilities

1. Bacgggcund:
As'part of our general preparation for the 7090 system, we

have been actively exploring the use of time - shared multipro-
gramming, with one or many input-output devices connected.v We
have successfully demonstrated with our flsxowriter project that
time - sharing is a feasable method of running and testing pro-
grams. ,

As M. I. T. explores more deeply the problems of teaching and
research, computers are certain to have more applicability as a
teaching and research tool. This need will be fulfilled either by
providing a large number of relatively slow, limited capability com—
puting systems spread throughout classrooms and departments of the
Institute; through time - shared usage of a large, fast, and versa-
tile system such as the 7090, or perhaps via a combination of both°

Based upon available information, the Committee assigned to
study this problem; namely, F. J. Corbato, J. McCarthy, and H. M.
Tagger, recommend quite strongly that the possibility of a remote-
COnsole time shared 7090 system be broached withappropriate cathoritiss at ax
early date, as an area deserving support improvement of teaching
facilities_and techniques“

2° Specifications for the Proposed System:

At present, we are distinctly handicapped with respect to a
detailed understanding of the 7090 lo is and constructionp* Lack-
ing such information, it is extremely difficult to express feasa-
bility in terms of cost, or any other terms other than "We know how
to do it and We feel it will be a better solution than a multitude
of small machines"a

Basically, the system would be comprised of a 7090, several
disc files, 5 — 10 remote inquiry stations similar to the 7070
system stations (electric typewriters and some push buttons) , and
sufficient channels and electronic hardware to make the system work“
Some of the lemote Lecture Hall stations would, in addition, be
equipped with self maintaining scope - displays and light pens.

s This is a policy matter that we feel should be broached at a high
level with IBM 3n seenriug their cooperationo


-2-
_ so each user of a remote console, the 7090 system would appear to

be a slower running machine, but he would have available to him any
of the powerful programming and diagnostic systems now in use, as
well as a large central filing system for his own programs and discs.

Problems or program safety“ and accounting can be presently. solved
with known techniques.;

3». Problems to be studied and Solved:
1. Hardware - As has been previously stated, not enough is pre-
sently known about the 7090 design to give definite specifications
for what is needed. However, there are several "Must'I items that
can best be provided through IBM that can (by their lack) invali-
date this as a reusable system. The lack of these- items is not
too probable if IBM cooperation is achieved at a high level on the
basis of the novelty, and general applicability of the system.
A) Disc files - A must item. Our prior specs for a 7090 system
do not include discs since IBM has not announced them for the
7090. They have, however, equipped a sister machine, the 7070,
with low speed dzscs. These will be invaluable in providing
random access to programs and programming systems to all con—
current users.,
B) Remote Inquiry Stations - Another must item. Such inquiry
stations should be wire connected to the 7090 in order to mini-
mize both cost and maintenance. Although flezowriters could be
used, we would be far better off in using the remote inquiry
stations that IBM uses with the 7070 system, or possibly with
their 305 system.
0) Guard or Bounding; Registers - A definite highly desirable
item} In time shared usage, the problem of program compete-
bility becomes of paramount interest. Lacking such registers,
the solutions to compatibility will either limit the overall
speed of the system ( as in our flexo monitor - interpretive
system where speed drops by some )40 ) or else the flexibility
of the system by restricting the programmer to completely safe,
and foolproof program systems; IBM has developed such registers
for their "stretch" system, but it would be highly unlikely that

 

  

s Preventing unwanted modification to other programs concurrently in
memoryo

m- But presently unlikely on the 7090 due to cost:


-3. '

they could be available on the 7090 without IBM cooperation.

D) Alarm (nooksa Self Maintainigg Scope Displays;I etc. - Such
items are desirable, but can be designed with available talent

exclusive of IBM.

11. Conclusions and Recommendations:

It is therefore recommended that the system be broached with.
appropriate authorities at an early date, and further that high
level representation be made to IBM to assure cooperation.

Herbert H. Teaser


