Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

 

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Di ital Com uter Operation

”‘ - and ﬁtiiiiat on-- nvestigation into
the patterns of operation of’ETectronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
*research; including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis
,and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Pro osed Research; Back round Information: We are organizing what
should be one o? the most fruitful centers for research related to
the use’of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machines, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non—classified and non-routine research. MIT '
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 55 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research,

In this atmosphere and with these facilit as, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do in ortant and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital corputers in science, engineering,
and business. A central research roup, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers pi ad from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working 2loae1y with persons from the
other colleges, will help COOTdiﬂahﬂ the work of the Center and
will carry on research of their own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine