Computation APPLICATION FORM FOR COMPUTER USAGE Page 1 of 2
MIT
Center (To be submitted to Institutional Representative or
MIT Department Representative in duplicate, Please type)

EF — — — — ———————————— — ——— a — —— — Ter ——————

1. Applicant: (Not to be filled

 

Name, Title, Dept., and Institution: | in by applicant)
Prob, No.

 

I —— I ————— a —————————————————)
Programmer’s No,

Address:

   

 

    
 

 

Phone No,:

 

I I — I — ——— —— = — es)

 

2, Problem Title: Init, Date:

 

 

3, Programmer(s): (if applicant, write "applicant"; append supplementary ||Term. Date:
sheet if necessary)

 

a, Name, title, and programming experience on high speed machines:
Inst .Rep.Approval:

 

Address: | Ei] es Comp, Center
rere | | Ap DTOVE] §

Phone No, :

 

 

 

b. Name, title, and programming experience on high speed machines:

Comp, Center
Esti mates:

 

Address:

 

 

Phone No, 3

 

ER
4. Sponsor: (e.g., faculty advisor, thesis supervisor, project leader,

etc,) Publicati ons:
Name and title:

 

 

 

Os Signature of Sponsor signifying approval of this work:

 

 

6. What is the purpose of this work? (e.g, educational, faculty
research, thesis (specify); if supported research project, give con-
tract number:

Total Mach, Time
Used:

 

 

 

7. Do you intend to publish the results and if so where? (e.g., thesis,
name of progress report, etc.)

 

8, Does the programmer(s) intend to do all the programming?

CCF=2


Page 2
9. Does the programmer(s) intend to prepare the input cards?
10. If the answer to 8 or 9 is no, what plans have you?

(Ordinarily, programming and card punching have to be done by the programmer. If
assistance is needed from the Center, special arrangements have to be made)

11. When will program testing probably start?

 

12, Estimate of machine hours required for testing programs:

 

13. Estimate of machine hours to complete production runs from tested program:

 

   

14, For cataloging purposes, how would you index this problem? For example, mathema-
ties, logic, game, etc, If this is a mathematical problem, specify type(s) such
as integration, partial differential equations, matrix theory, etc,

 

Gauss’ quadrature method, difference equations, Crout, etc.

 

16. On one or two additonal sheets write sections A, B, and C as follows:
Section A: A one-paragraph abstract of Section B and C.

Section Bg: Complete deseription of problem background which should give com-
plete picture to someone well acquainted with the relevant
field of research, Give references to earlier or related work and
indicate relation to this work,

Section C: Description of numerical and computer techniques to be used, and
Justification of their adequacy or indication of how adequacy is
to be determined, This description should include, when perti-
nent, the number of significant figures accuracy required at
various stages of the calculation and the ranges and values of
the quantities involved in sufficient detail so that program
complexity may be estimated, In addition, indicate how you
plan to test the programs and whether you have test cases
available, :

CCF=-2


