-8

Solution ef the Inventory Control Problem on the 650 Calculator

A basic 650 program was prepared for a simplified inventory
control problem. Specifically, the program was designed to
handle any number of stock-numbered items up to 34-per-day iteas.
The program was limited to control and reporting of customer
products only. No attempt was made to control the component parts
for the items., Similarly, no atteampt was made to report the raw
material requirements.

ZXI1I.

XXXIi. Study of Brokersge Accounting

A basic 650 program was prepared for calculating the items
appearing in the transaction statement of a customer's brokerage
account, The following items were included in this study:

1, Commercial postage and insurance,
2. Federal tramsfer taxzes, ~

3. State transfer taxes,
4, S.E.C. fees.

Naturally a program of this type cannot be gll inclusive and &
number of simplifying assumptions had to be made to effect the
solution of the program in a reasonable amount of time,

A consideration of the above list reveals that a wide variety of
problems were considered. It must be emphasized that the latter group of
subjects were performed on a "term paper'' basis. That is, these studies
were performed on an individual basis, and elabzarate reports were prepared
describing the problem statement, the actual 650 program, the results obtained,
and a summary and evaluation of the paper. Although the term paper was expected
to require 30-40 hours of home and laboratory work, the actual time put in by
the students varied enormously. For example, this time ranged from 30 hours
to 360 hours, respectively. In the latter case, students intend to use this
topic as a basis for their master's theses during succeeding terms, '

It is appavent from the above course description that an attempt was
made to cover both secientific computing and electreric deta processiag in the
subject. This can indeed be dome, particularly when individual term papers
are assigned. However, as time goes on it may be advisable to separate this
subject into two distinct subjects, one dealing solely with scientific computing
and the other with business data processing.

This subject was taught by Dr. F. M. Voerzuh, Director, Office of
Statistical Sevvices. There were 26 students enrolled in Subject 6.538 during
the Spring Term 1956 of which there we:e 12 Electrical Engineering students,
4 Chemical Engineering students, one Geophysics student, 3 Economics students,
2 Business Administration students, and 4 Mathematics students, respectively.
Thigs was the first time students were able to use the 650 Calculator as part of
their laboratory work. Judging by the large number of this group -~ 12 studenis =-
who are now using the machine for the solution of their thesis problems, it
appears that the subject was highly successiul.