| 4,"'0'0:":0 ‘
s f . " ':;"f,"gf:
)
A " .:':‘1"’
an ",»‘f‘dfc'}‘:;
i W“:ﬁ::‘

‘

       

1 .t 117 38N
y ':':"v:’:v"‘f':c:l'l:i:':l:l:f,:‘:;:o:/ ’
SOOI Y taletate ts 'ﬁ:l;’,’,‘,:.;o‘ "
) e l'i,l'l:ll'l l‘;‘:,,’," "
‘ , r.r fai el
'X‘ “Jl"‘ 'l“:'o 'lfl""“o‘o’i e

     

 

A

 

 

ole in the double-layer tank.
tials calculated

1 medium. The

3. Field of a dip :
s are the equipoten

two-dimensiona
asured equipotentmls.

ov T

Fi6
The broken line :
qssuming an infinite
solid lines are the me

-0V

+01Vv
=01V

Fic. 4. Field produced by positive and negative

halfshells in the double-layer tank.

also n a finite circular conductor.® The poten-
tial at a point P due to a source and sink in an
mfinite two-dimensional medium is given by:

7 [ Ty r
V=-—"Ih—-=4Ah-
2rkd 1y s

where V' = potential at any point P in the
field, I = total current from source to sink,
k= conductivity of medium, d = depth of

(1) of the field is very similar to th

C. V. NELSON

conducting medium, r = distance from siyj
to P, r, = distance from source to P. Equation
(1) makes it possible to find the potentia) at
points 1n the field by.merely measuring the
distances r and 7. Figure 3 shows a com.
parison between equipo?entials calculated from
equation (1) (dashed lines), and those megs-
ured in the double-layer tank (solid lines). It

is evident that the double-layer tank gives g
good appro.\'imation of an infinite field.

At field points whose distance from the source
and sink is large in comparison with the dis-
tance between the source and sink, these may
be treated as a dipole, and equation (1) be-

comes

Sk B (2)
where M = dipole moment = current strength
times distance between poles, r = distance from
dipole center 10 field point, 8 = angle bet\.veen
line from field point to dipole center, and dipole
axis (dipole axis from — to + pole).; M =
M /2xkd. Equation (2) is more convement.and
accurate than equation (1) at remote points,
since equation (1) would involve the measure-
ment of two nearly equal distances: The locus
of the zero-potential line can be rtox.md -from
equation (2) by setting V = 0. This will .be
true when 6 = 90° or 270°, or along the line
pendicular to the dipole axis.

pel’ll’)he potential field of two halfshells.—As an
e to which the double-layer
eld due to a “distributed
Metal conductors were
pex having the

example of the us
tank can be put, the fi
source” was measured.
spaced around a piece of pers . .
size and shape of the heart cross-sectional area.
The metal pieces dipped into the electrolyte,
and a potential difference was set up betwg;n
the left-hand and right-hand (501'1(.Juct0rs."l ie
resulting potential distribution 18 shown }l,n
4. Near the center of the tank, the
. ollow the contour of
themselves equip”
Lctors, the shape
at of a I)O.i“t

source and sink, as may be seen by COmPTl'l:i
figure 4 with figure 3. If in figure 3 any<()i 5
equipotentials, say those for 41 volt an

volt, were replaced by metal conducto

figure
equipotentials tend to f
the conductors, which are
tentials. Away from the condt

I's Of t.he

 

?

 

 

FINITE BOUNDARY AND POTENTIAL DISTRIBUTIONS

same Size and shape and a potential difference
of 2 volts were set up between them (assuming
o polariza‘tion troubles), the external field
would be absolutely unchanged. It is, there-
fore, possible to use metal conductors in field
studies, as long as the conductors represent
equipotentia] lines or areas of the original field.
The field in the region inside the metal con-
ductors in figure 4 would be different from that
of a similar region 1n figure 3, as in the former
case the equipotentials tend to be tangent to
the conductors. The zero line is similar in the
two cases, however. The bending of the external
zero line in figure 4 1s due to the slight asym-
metry of the two groups of conductors. The fact
that the field at points away from the half-
shells is very similar to the field produced by a
point source and sink 1s in keeping with the
demonstration’ that any distribution of sources
and sinks has a statistical average, which is
equivalent to a single source and sink. (This is
not meant to imply that the potential distri-
bution near the heart is necessarily equivalent
to that produced by a single dipole.)

SoLUTION 0F BOUNDARY PROBLEMS BY IMAGES

The simplest method of treating boundary
value problems is by the use of images, 1n-
troduced by Thomson (Lord Kelvin).® If
a source and sink in the presence of a boundary
pi‘oduce a certain potential field, the image system
s the hypothetical distribution of sources and
sinks which would produce the same field with
the boundary removed. It is then possible to
-alpply equation (1) to each set of sources and
smrl:'s, original and image, to find the potential.

The term “image” as used here and dis-
CllS:S('.(l by Pruitt and Valencia® involves an
e““""‘l.\" different concept from the ‘“‘image
surtace” of Burger and Van Milaan,'® or from
thf‘ “mirror image” electrocardiograms ob-
tamed on diametrically opposite sides of the
chest, 1! ‘
) Images in straight-line  boundary.—In
figure 54 4 source and sink are immersed n
(-(m(.hu-lin;: liquid 1., which is bounded by the
Straight insulating edge S. Figure 5b shows the
I}]ath(‘ﬂlaliv:lll.\’ equivalent situation. The line
S has heep, removed and the entire region is now
considered to be filled with the conducting

239

liquid, infinite in extent. The

d, 1 . source and sink
remain 1n their original po

sition, but an i
source and sink have heen addedj lllllt( ;)l(l)tlerlr:?ii(;
.at every point in the liquid is exact]y the same
n the.! two cases, and can be ,'ill(‘lliiit(‘d from
equation (3). (The potential must, of course
'I)e calculated for the original area of ('onduct-,
mg.liquid. To caleulate potential values for the
region to the right of S would be meaningless.)

V = A)nn" (3)
roTy
which is the same as equation (1) except that
the distances r; and 7, from the field point to
the sink and source images are included. The
locus of the zero potential line can be found by
putting V' = 0 in (3) from which

'’y = Toly (“1’)

It can be seen from figure 5 that the image

of a dipole in a straight insulating line is an

equal, antiparallel dipole. The formula cor-
responding to (2) becomes

e M [(‘OS b, i C0s 0;»] 5)

I Iy

 

 

where 6, and r; correspond to 8 and r, and 6,
and r, are the image dipole angle and distance.
The effect of the boundary can be visualized
from a consideration of figure 5b. In the im-
mediate vicinity of the dipole, the dipole
potential is so much greater than the potential
due to the image that the latter can be neg-

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
  

 

ind sink in a straight in-

Q) gy
G, D, Images ()f souree { ;
20 1 the source and sink are

i : ary. In (a),
sulating boundar o S i
’ 2 e conducting liquid L adjacent to insulat
images have heen drawn in and

assumed that the liquid L is

shown insid
ing edge S. In (b), the

S removed. It can now be

infinite 1n extent.