Since our enlarged computer installation is still in its initial
stages, a substantial amount of time is currently available. We plan to
operate on a 3—shift basis as quickly as possible, and are therefore
naturally interested in allocating computer time on a long—term, or large—
block basis wherever that may be feasible. Where such possibilities exist,
we are prepared to negotiate a commitment on our part to supply specified
amounts of computer time during specified periods. We are not yet in a
position to quote an hourly computer rate, but can promise that it will be
relatively low.

As you will realize, our new computer will be able to handle a great
variety of calculations. The existence of a large number of 701; routines
for commonly used sub-calculations, as well as some complete programs for
standardized problems, greatly reduces programing time in most cases.

For example, a complete set of codes are in operation for handling Linear
Programming problems up to as large as 255 restraint equations in any
number of unknowns. The only preparation that is necessary f or the machine
is to keypunch the input data. Incidentally, the present staff has wide
experience in this type of calculation.

Vallocate 70/; programs are not alreacbr available, we shall be glad to
work out with you the most practicable method of adapting your problem to
the machine. One of the goals of the machine programing staff is to
build a library of routines which will facilitate handling of a variety
of problems, and you will find them attentive to your particular require—
ments.

If you foresee long- or short—term computer requirements during the
coming year, and find you may need to meet them on a contract basis, we
should appreciate hearing from you.

The facilities of the Council have a high security clearance.

Incidentally, as a practical consideration, it is worth mentioning
that our Research. Center is not more than 10 minutes ride from the National
Airport, and about 5 minutes from the new Marriott Motel, the largest and
most modern in the country. Moreover, we have arrangements with the airlines
to have any mail or packages delivered to the airport at flight—time. Such
material coﬂd also be picked up immediately at destination. In many
instances, this would make it possible for us to receive data in the morning,
complete the computations, and forward the results in the course of a single

day.
S incerely yours ,

Herbert W. Robinson
President