PERGAMON PRESS, INC.

7,
C fp -
799 & gst 55% Slvel,
Tolegurfitiec Held es5 PERGAPRESS, NEW YORK : Vow A rd 20 | WN y

Telephone PLAZA 3-8580

26th January 1959.

Dr.Philip Morse,

Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge,

Massachusetts,

U.S.A.

Dear Dr.Morse,
International Tracts in Computer Science & Technology

We have been investigating over the past few weeks
the need for an international medium for the rapid publication of
reports, review articles, monographs, reference books and symposia
proceedings, dealing with matters of interest to workers in the area
of computer design, component development, computer use, and related
fields. The need for speedy publication in this rapidly developing
field has long been apparent,and our enquiries met with strong support.

We have, therefore, decided to inaugurate such a
Series, and the purpose of this letter is to invite you to join the
Honorary Editorial Advisory Board for the Series. The editors
appointed at the time of writing are Professor N.Metropolis of Chicago
and Dr.S.Ulam of Los Alamos. Your duties as a member of the Honorary

Editorial Advisory Board will not be onerous, but it is hoped that you
wills

(a) Propose topics for books in the Series, together with
your suggestions for possible authors.

(b) Advise the Publishers from time to time at occasional
meetings and by correspondence on the editorial policy
of the Series.

You will be reimbursed for any out of pocket expenses
such as postage, secretarial, etc. that you may incur during the course

cont'd...


Continuation Page — da

of your duties, and you will receive a complimentary copy of
all books published in the Series.

I enclose a draft of the aims and scope of the
International Tracts in Computer Science & Technolo and the

Editors and I sincerely hope you will Join us in this exciting
new project, for which there is an undoubted need.

Sincerely yours,

Le 2 Lf
Le alt 1h

Encl.


Aims and Scope of Series

INTERNATIONAL TRACTS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
eee er i SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

 

General Editers: Professor Nicholas Metropolis - Chicago

assisted by an international Honorary Zditorisl Advisory Board.

The need for speedy publication in this rapidly developing field
1&8 long been apparent, and this new international Series is
established as a medium for the rapid publication of reperts,
review articles, monographs, books of reference and proceedings

of important sonferences, dealing with matters of interest to
workers in the area of computer design, component development,
computer use; and related fields. Much of the important literature
in fields related to computers is in the form of governmental and
industrial laboratory reports with too restricted a distribution;
in the interest of quickly making available knowledge concerning
outstanding developments in these fields, the Editors will commission
contributions to the Series from all countries in the world,
including the U.S.S.R.

It 1s realized that many workers in this fast moving field cannot
devete the necessary time to producing a finished monograph.
Because of their concern for speedy publication, the Editors will
not expect the contributions to be fully polished writings if the
originality of the ideas they contain warrant immediate and wide
dissemination.


