Po, 2

I have obtained Volume I of your book "Methods of Theoretical Physics" and have
Volume II.on 9rde?. The subject matter of these volumes is extremely interesting
to me as it fits in very closely with my own work. I am enclosing, for your infor-
mation, a collection of my reprints. You will notice in the one entitled "Human

Thorax Potential" on pg. 1034 that I have given an equation for the potential at

any point in an ellipse.

As far as I know, this solution is not available else-
where.,

The singularities at the foci and the line between the foci do not appears.
As a matter of fact, I sent the complete solution sometime ago to the Journal of
Applied Physics, but the manuscript was rejected. Since the reviewer of the manu-
script obviously was not familiar with the field (he stated, for example, that
"source and sink" were not proper scientific terms), I did not bother to resubmit
the manuscript. Probably the most important publication is one for which I have
no more reprints. This is the one by Gabor-Nelson entitled "Determination of the
Resultant Dipole of the Heart From Measurements on the Body Surface" and appeared
in the Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 25, pge L13, 1954. This shows that it is
possible to obtain the resultant dipole moment of any system of sources and sinks
inside a volume conductor from potential measurements on the outer boundary.

 

In deriving the equations for the potential due to an arbitrary dipole in an ellip-
tical cylinder I should like to start with a more general solution., This would be
for a dipole in a cylinder having one value of conductivity surrounded by an in-
finite medium of a different conductivity. In this solution I would set the
arbitrary constants so that potential is defined to be equal to zero at infinity.

T would then let the resistance of the surrounding medium increase to infinity and
find the limiting equation., This would then give the potential inside the insula-
ted cylinder with respect to a zero at infinity. The question of zero potential

is one that has plagued electrocardiologists for many years and many arguments

have appeared as to what is zero potential, I have used the above method for a
circle and I am planning to send a publication to the journal "Circulation Research"
in which this method of defining the zero of potential for a bounded conductor is
proposed. I would greatly appreciate your opinion as to this method. I realize,

of course, that one can always add an arbitrary constant to a potential distribu-
tion, but I should think that the arbitrary constant could be defined in this manner,.
T would also appreciate your opinion as to the possibility of deriving an equation
for the dipole in the cylinder immersed in the medium of a different conductivity.

Incidently, I am a graduate of M.I.T. and took your course #805 in which, as I re-
call, I received a "C". Subsequently I received my Ph.,D. at the University of
London and concentrated in electrocardiology and potential theory. There are a
great many techniques, ideas and methods in physics and engineering which can and
should be applied to problems of electrocardiology and electrophysiology in general.
In view of the fact that heart disease is now the chief cause of deaths, much more
work should be done in applying these concepts to biological problems.

I will write to you again when I have a definite arrangement with a Maine college.
In the meantime, I would very much appreciate any suggestions which might occur to
you °

Sincerely yours,

Clifprd Y. Pl

CVN/b Clifford V. Nelson, Ph.D.
ence Director, Basic Cardiovascular
Researsh

e