.3-

 

The extent to which each of the three criteria of suitability must be ex-
~plicit in analysis will vary with the type of operations research mission.
However, even in relatively restricted missions, it is always wise to
raise questions concerning the other two criteria at certain stages of
the research, and at least to do so once before a final recommendation is

made .

The dimensions of decision in organized courses of action are variable.
An organized course of action is, itself, a system, and, as in all systems,
all parts and elements are interdependent, so that a decision affecting
one part will affect the total system. However, the degree of effect on ’ ’ ’
the total System is variable. The effects of certain decisions will largely
be confined to Vanall segments of the action pattern, whereas the effects
ofwotheirdeciisionn may have a rapid and extensive spread throughout the
entire system. In general, and other things being equal, the narrower the
dimensions of decision to be taken, the more it is possible to confine the
analysis to one of the three systems in organized courses of action and to
its corresponding criterion.

One of the first steps in analysis of an operation, conceived as an
organized course of action, is to determine which of the three major systems
should be given primary focus. In general, this step is relatively easy,
and can be done by quick estimate. However, borderline cases will cer-
tainly arise in which a detailed preliminary analysis of the mission and
its main components will be necessary before the proper focus of analysis
can be achieved“ Succeeding steps in operations research will involve a
detailed analysis of the requirements of the situation of action in direct
relation to the mission, as they bear on the primary system in question,
the construction of models of alternative systems, (within this system
type) and finally, before conclusions are drawn and recomendations are
made, the other two systems should be thrown temporarily into problematical
focus, to see if the assumptions made concerning them are valid. Thus, the
extent to which the elements of the total system or any mJor subaayst- need
to be known before recommendations can be made is variable. The general __
principles suggested above ’may" furnish guides for determination of this "A
dimension and for the reduction of waste research effort,

Thus, X would maintain that theories of action developed in oper—
ations research and in the social sciences are sufficiently similar so that
value does accrue from cross-fertilization of these disciplines. I would
also suggest that a point has been reached today where greatest relative
gain (per unit of research=--e.g., research dollar) can be expected from
analyses of social systems, and questions should be asked about them in all
operations research more than is at present the case. Organized courses
of action require social systems, and social systems, in turn, have their
own requirements. These requirements must be known, and tolerance levels