October 15, 1957

MEMORANDUM TO: S.I.M. Staff Members

FROM: S.I.M. Committee on Computing Machine Usage, S. S. Alexander,
David Durand, and J. W, Forrester, Chairman

The M.I.T. Computation Center with its 70L Computer is now available
for use. Projects sponsored by M.I.T. research funds or by grant-in-aid
funds may use the computer at no charge. DSR projects, either commercial
or military, may have a charge levied against them, assuming that they
are eligible for machine time.

 

 

The Computation Center 1s a new installation and it will require

 

some patience on the part of staff members while we all learn the proper

 

way to expedite machine usage. For those staff members unfamiliar with

 

the Computation Center, it will be necessary to leam something about both

 

the procedure for submitting work to the Center and about the technical
details of computer usage and programming.
To expedite the use of the Center and to make it more effective, we
will attempt to provide, in the Management School, a central advisory
service. The Computation Center makes available some research assistant
ships with the intent that these research assistants shall act as liaison
staff between their departments and the Computation Center. We may soms- =~ —
times be able to augment the Computation Center asslstantships with ones
from the School itself.
In order that the research assistants may be as effective as possible,
we are asking that they all report to one staff member, Mr. Jack Arnow, for
general advisory and policy guidance and for assignment to particular staff
members. Mr. Arnow has had extensive experience in computing machine usage
and, in this advisory and research assistantship assignment capacity, will
report to this Committee.


Qe

Staff members of either S.T.M. or the Economics Department who
wish to make use of the Computation Center are invited to consult with
Mr. A™ow or with any member of the Committee.

Use of the Computation Center requires approval of the particular
project on a form provided by the Center. After this is filled in, S.I.M.
gtaff members should have the fom approved on behalf of the School and,
for this purpose, it should be submitted to the Chairman of the Committee.

Especially while we are formulating an effective and workable

arrangement, the Committee solicits any suggestions which you may have.

ce Staff members of Economics Department
Prof. Philip Morse ;
Prof. Dean Arden
Dr. Frank Verzuh
Mr, J. F. Blackbum, TBM, Rm 26-151


