~3-

supplied on each tine sheet. The sheet statements reg

non—Instru-enution Laboratory usage could be used by our budget
section as the basis for billing other users. Our authority for
such charges would some from purchase orders submitted to either

our project or DIG.

Continue the current arrangement of having Prof. Morse advise us
on the types of non-Instrumentation Laboratory work, which should
be perfumed on RDA tron a technical standpoint.

Continue present practice of having all EDA personnel comidered
an Instrumentation Laboratory responsibility. Thus, Instrumenta—
tion Laboratory is clearly responsible for assigning these people
to other work if the Analyzer is temporarily or permanently shut
down. ’

The following is a brief summary of the usage and fiscal arrange-
lents given in more detail in Appendix A and B for the period from October 1,
1950 - October 1, 1952:

Percentage of Estimated Cost

 

Time to User
lnstnmsntstion Lab. usage 55$ $50,000 *
Non-Instrumaltation Lab. usage 33% 8.700 ’
(charges reimbursed)
Neu-Instmmentation Lab. usage 12% 0

(free usage for Institute
academic activity)

*3 Estimates include overhead at 1.2%

During this period, the RDA has been used in connection with three
doctorate theses, totaling nearly four months of RDA time. Dr. Seaman's
thesis is listed as part of the Instrumentation Laboratory work while
Dr. Tung's thesis is included in the time of the Mechanical Engineering
Dept. This thesis work, plus the time given to Institute departments, shows
that 25% or more of the RDA operation has been in fundamental research. The
charges to other DIG projects are satisfactory but the credits on work out-
side of MIT have seemed too low. For 57.5 days work for Stevens Institute,
Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratory, Bendix and the U of 133., we have
received a credit of approximately $2375. This figure plus overhead amounts
to $3375, which is far less than the 5537500 that we would have charged these
companies under DIC policy. Of this 257500, $1500 would have been for the
industrial fund.

Sect ion 6.0 CONCLUSIONS
~———__._.._____

As this memorandum indicates, we are currently dependmt on the use
of both the RDA and Statistical Services for solving our calibration problems.