PROPOSAL FOR EXTENSION 6? NSF GRANT No. NSFG2240
to June 30! 1958

Proposal

 

Although our IBM 704 is now delivered and is in storage at
MIT, delay in completion of the building to house it has delayed
commencement of-the project financed by NSF grant NSF 029u0. As
a result, it is estimated that only about $8,000 will have been
spent by June 30, 1957. Staff members, which were to have been
transferred to this project, have been continued on the Whirlwind
project until the change-over, and most of them will not be trans-
ferred until summer. It is therefore proposed that the project be
continued until June 50, 1958, with an additional grant of only
$13,000, so that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to
June 1958, we can operate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecast. Estimated details of budget
are appended, together with cXcerpts from the original proposal.

Progress to Date

Although the NSF funds have not been used to any extent, work
on the first aspects of the proposed research has gone forward
as rapidly as is possible without the 704 being in running condi-
tion. A complete utility and a post-mortem program have been
developed. and tested out on borrowed 704 time, a much more
flexible assembly program than at present available has been
begun, ready for active coding when our 704 is in operation.
Discussions have been begun with a view to investigating the
incorporation of a flexible output equipment utilizing the
1 photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Many programs
4‘ of importance in physics and engineering have been, or are being

‘ translated from Whirlwind language to 70k language, such as the
work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. C. Slater
and the large—shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossi. The
meteorology group under Prof. Charney, recently moved here from
Princeton where their work was initiated by Von Neumann, is
planning to use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
require the advice and help of our staff to program their various
calculations. We will be assisting the Harvard Observatory staff
in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the IGY satellite "shoots". Dr. S. Ulam of Los Alamos, who has
been a Visiting Fellow to the Center this year, has been assisting
us develop "Monte Carlo" techniques. Prof. John McCarthy of the
Dartmouth Mathematics Department (one of the New England colleges
participating in our program} will be here next year and will be
interested in developing machine logic and in further investiga-
tions of the behavior of "automate" by means of simulation pro-
grams. The staff of the NIT library is interested in exploring
the possibilities of storing and recovering information by
machine methods and a project in the MIT Language Department on
machine translation, supported by the Rockefeller Foundation.
expects to use our equipment to test out their ideas. Other

groups, at the 23 participating colleges, are planning further
work.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

._