3.1

 

" "also ke maintzined on this ame column.

coacerning ceater line locaticn on steel plates vs. “liroleus boundsry”
ocutline dravings -- one never knov shether reference was being made to &
linoleus boundary or an I-besm structure. PFurther complication exists decause
the ¥est wall of Boom 156 is 117 East of that showm on any svailable Skidmore,
Owings and Herrill dreawings.

   

Associsted Prohlcns‘gg'nact Connected Machines

Reference vas made to the Poughkeepsie memo by Eatthews dated
Dace=ber 10 for specifications for "wind sketeh circuit” reguirements for the
HIT installstion. It was agresd that NIT would provide two #1l4 wires from the
"gind sketch"” to the base of the Type 747 Power Distribution Mnit (leaving a
47 lgader availasble for comnectioa to the underfloor Cannon plug socket which
will be provided by the Il Corporatiom.

The specifications for the hunidity control (Minneapolis-Homneywell
152P) and asscciated relay equipment were examinad and discussed. It was
agreed that the mmidity and temperature conitrol recording equipment would be -
maintained on the West side of Column A-3. The signal indicating light will

Hiscellegnecus Items gg_tho Agends

Since the special engineering group, sales department, and the
various contracters were availgble during this meeting, many migcellansous
items were considered. For example:

1. Arrangements were made to install a duct from the power panel in the
704 room undernceath the steel plates which would permit the
installation of the five conductor power cables betwesn the power
panel and the Typse 741 Power Distribution Unit. Because of the
cramped location, it was agreed that a duct of dimension §" x 7"
might be installed ,°

 

2, It was vecosmended that a 115v outlet be installed on the North
gside of Column A-2 to be used with the Type 62-68 Data Receiver,

3. Trevato recommended that two (2) layers of masonite matexrial be
provided during the machine installation periocd =-- to protect
the rubber flooring from machine marking,

4, Travato indicated that IBM customer engineers would arrive at
the MIT 704 site two weeks prioy to machine delivery to ingtall
the underfliocor cabkles.

6. It was suggested that a 1/4" steel plete caster be provided for

2ll casters on the heavy machines in tho 704 srea. These castors
will be cut by the MIT shop.