Adninistrative Memorandum A-1 | Page 1 of 10

M.X.T. Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

To: Professor P. M. Morse Date: October 27, 1956

From: Dr. Frank M. Verzuh

Subject: JOB DESCRIPTION FOR COMPUTATION CENTER PERSONNEL

Introduction

The purpose of this memorandum is to enumerate the principal categories

of non-staff and staff personnel positions and to provide the job description of
each. The job descriptions presented in this memorandum must of necessity be
somewhat general. On the other hand, it is hoped that they are sufficiently detailed
to assigt in the actual procurement of personnel to fill the respective positions,

An attempt has been made to establish the minimum starting requirements for
the various positions. However,every effort should be made to obtain candidates whose
qualifications exceed the minimum requirements.

In order to assist the Personnel Office in their Job of weeding and selecting
candidates for interviews at the Computation Center, there are at least five (5)
general qualifications which should be examined prior to arrangement of an interview
with the Computation Center Personnel Officer. These general qualifications ave:

1. Educational background,

2, Natural ability and aptitude,

3. Previous experience,

4, Technical skills,

5. Demonstrated compatibility -- ability to work with others,
teamwork, etc.,

6. Physical appearance.

The exact definition of the above five qualifications varies with the particular job

description involved. Hence, succeeding sections of this report will clarify the
meaning of these terms.

There are many types of jobs available in the M.I.T. Computation Center. The
following list includes the principal ones:

Administrative personnel ~ personnel officer, project supervisor,
Office personnel -~ secretary, clerk; typists,
Tape Room ~ clerk, flexoWriter cperator, supervisor, etc.,

achine Operators —- WWI computer operator, photographer, supsrvisor,
IBM Caxd Punch operator - key punch operator

uv o

> WM
°


iG.
11,

12.

Page 2 of 10

IGE Electronic Accounting Machine operator - EAM machine operator,

IBY Machine Room supervisor - EAM supervisor,

EDF Coder - trainee programmer,

Electronic Date Processing Machine programmer — professional Programuex,

Electronic Data Processing Machine Analyst - numerical analyst and
skilled programmer,

Electronic Data Processing Machine console operator - G50, 704, or
705 console operator,

Electronic Data Processing Machine assistant operator - assistant
console and peripheral equipment operator.

Succeeding sections of this memorandum contain one-page job descriptions of the
various positions available in the M.I.T. Computation Center. Since some of these
are quite standard ~- cleriesl, typist, secretarial » €tC., no attempt will be made
to describe these particular positions. However, those positions peculiar to the
Computation Center will be described in detail.

F. M. Verzuh 4


M.X.T. Computation Center Page 3 of 10

Title of Position: IRM CARD PUNCH OPERATOR

~ DUTIES . .
1. Card Punching: transcribes numeric or alphanumeric data onto punched cards by

2.

operating the Type 011, 024, or 026 Card Punch Machines. By means of the card
punch machine, the original data is converted from the source document into holes
din en JBM card. This is a manual operation in which the cperator reads the
manuscript and, by striking appropriate keys, converts the information into punched

‘holes in the card. This operation is somewhat more sutomatic than that accomplished

by a typist employing the touch system since the mechine feeds, positions, and
ejects the cards automstically. The operator merely concentrates on striking the

correct key at the right time.

Card Verifying: to insure the accuracy of the key punching, a separate machine is
available to check the accuracy of the work. This machine is called a Verifier.
The operation of this machine ig very similar to the key punch (>hysical outward
appearances are almost identical) and a key punch operator is expected to operate
the Verifier. A Type 056 Verifier is used in this office to check the accuracy of
the original key punching. Usually, a second operator verifies the key punching by
depressing the keys of the Verifier while reading from the original source data.

This is basically the same type of operation as typing or operating the card punch,

Performance: a successful key punch operator is one who can achieve nigh speeds

of operation and at the same time maintain a reasonable degree of accuracy. High
accuracy naturally will minimize the amount of error-correction effort which must be
expendod., As a matter of fact, in certain operations the need for verifying is
eliminated whem avisual check of the listed vesults is made. This implies that
certain key punch operators soon learn to list cards on the IBM Tabulstor -- merely

‘a push-button operation requiring no knowlwdge of the Tabulator, wiring, operation,

etc. These results are listed and visually inspected for accuracy. (Note: not

all jobs can be handled in this manner.) The important point here is that the key
punch operator has a definite responsibility for the accuracy of her work. Obviously
ell succedding machine operations will be of no value if the input key punched

material is in error! Thus a high degree of accuracy is essential in the card

preparation stages of any RDFM operation.

QUALIFICATIONS

i.

6.

Educational Background: high school education or equivalent is a prerequisite.

Natural Ability and Aptitude: a high degree of manual dexterity is desirsble in
this job and, of course, normal or corrected vision of 20-20 is required.

Previous Experience: knowledge of typing is helpful but not an essential pre-
requisite for this position.

Technical Skills: an experiencad cord punch operator may qualify for advanced
salary based on proven previous performance —- a proficient card punch operator
willl average 10,000 key strokes per hour.

Compatibility: because the work is done on an individusl cassis, compatibilityis
not of prime importance. On the other hand, there is definite need Zo be able to
receive work, complete the assignment, and release the product in a graceful and
friendly manner. Good teamwork is essential.

Physical Appearance: A well-groomed appearance is degirable.


M.I.7. Computation Center Page 4 of 10

Title of Position: ELECTRONIC ACCOUNTING MACHINE (EAM) OPERATOR

DUTIES
The duties include the following:

1. Interpreting cards,

2. Sorting cards,

3. Listing cards,

4. Reproducing cards,

3. Selecting, matching, merging, and checking cavds,
6. Calculating results.

The above operations have been mechanized on a functional basis by special IBM machines
known as Interpreters, Sorters, Printers, Reproducers, Collators, and Calculators,
respectively. Depending on the size of the office, the degree of specialization of

. machine operations varies considerably. For example, a large office may have multiple
units identified as the Key Punch Unit, the Sorter Unit, the Reproducer and Tabulator
Unit, and the Collator and Calculator Unit, respectively. In the M.I.¥. Compuiation
Center, however, the size of the EAM Unit is such that EAM operations are usually
limited to a two-machine-of-a~type.. As a result, the EAM operators are expecsed to be
more versatile and able to operate various machines,

Depending upon the type of work flow within the BEAM office, there may be more or less
need for changing of control panel wiring on certain mechines. Specifically, in the
operation of a routine nature -~ payroll, registrar, bursar -- the need for changing
sel ups is limited. Oa the other hand, scientific computation oné research demands
all skills of machine operators since many different control panels must be wired,
used occasionally, and dismantled. :

QUALIFICATIONS
1. Educational Background: high school education or equivalent is required.

2. Natural Ability snd Aptidude: since a machine operator is handling a large number
cof cards, a certain amount of manual dexterity is required. Specifically, canis
must not be dropped, nishandied, or abused.

3. Previcus Experience: 1¥ is possible to hire a completely inexperienced individual
and send him to speciel IBi-offered courses of instruction on machine operation and
machine wiring, respectively Obviously previous EAM experience is extremely
valuable since a proficient knowledge of wiring can only be obtain by actual
experience. The rate of pay, of course, is governed accordingly.

4, Technical Skills: a top-notch EAM operator is capable of wiring the following EAM
machines: 2) Interpreter Type 552, b) Reproduser Types 913, 5314, 519, 526, and
928, c¢) Tabulator Types 402, 403, 4056, 407, 4) Collator Tyas 077 a 089,

e) Calculator Types 602, 604, G07, Carn-Trouvenasd Calculator, and 650 Magnesia
Brum Calculator.

3. Compatibility: it is extremely important that BAM machine operators be able to get
along with their fellow workers. Teamvork is essentisl since common machines are
used and continual "rubbing of shoulders’ is a necessary part of this operation.

6. Physical Appearance: a well-groomed individual is likely to produce good work,
since tabulating work is a precise and exacting operation.


Title of Position: IBM MACHINE ROCM SUPERVISOR

DUTIES ;
1. Scheduling: machine room supervisor is responsible for scheduling work flow
: through the machines -- this involves scheduling of machines as well as personnel.
2. Procedures Manual: machine room supervisor is responsible for the preparation
and maintenance of three levels of manuals: a) general offige manual, b) super-
vigsor's manual, c) operator 'smenual, respectively.
3. Job Instruction: preparation of the necessary problem instruction sheets for
individual jobs. : : | : 3.
4. New Systems: develops new applications and associated machine procedures.
So. Progress Reports: establishes and maintains a record of the progress showing time
spent and progress to date on all jobs.
6. Work Accuracy: he is responsible for checking and insuring the accuracy of the

QUALIFICATIQNS

i.

a.

is important.

M.I.T. Computation Center Page 5 of 10

work produced in his group.

Educational Background: high school education oy equivalent is required.

 

Natural Ability and Aptitude: ability to get along with people, thus insuring a
high output work level.

Previous Experience: supervision of previous EAM groups involving all types of EAM
machines is a prerequisite.

Technical Skills: an intimate knowledge of wiring all EAM machines is desirable.

Compatibility: since EAM installation is basically a service bureau for other
groups, it is important that the supervisor be able to contact employees of various
other departments. Good relations between the EAM office and other groups

Physical Appearance: a well-groomed physicel appearance is an essential requirement
for this position.


M.I.T. Computation Center Page 6 of 10
Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE RROGRAMMER

DESCRIPTION

There are several grades of programmers in an electronic dats processing installation.
The highest or Grade I programmer is referred to as a senior or professional programmer,
This person may program the most difficult problems or he may formulate block diagrams
and flow charts from which others may write the instructions or machine code. The
lower or second-grade position is usually refereed to as a ‘programmer’. The job
description for programmer is the same as for the prefessional programmer except for
the degree of competence.

A third-grade level of programmer may be called s& "trainee programmer or coder’ .

This person usually works under the direct supervision of a programmer or a professional
programmer, respectively. He is expected to write the actual machine instruction for

2 program from the block diagram prepared by the professional programmer

DUTIES

1. Assists in the preparation of the msthematical Statement or systems study of the
overall problem.

-2. Prepares the logical diagrams of the proposed EDPH procedure.

3. Assists in the review of the logic ~-- this involves a careful study of present and
proposed procedures with all those currently involved in the present operation.

4, Preperes a machine block diagram which is a statement of the solution of the
approved logical diagram expressed in machine language.

5. ©odes the procedures in the machine language. In effect, expresses the solution
of the problem in the particular machine language under consideration.

6. Frepares a test solution which is used in checking the program on an EDPY machine.
7. Performs the actual machine testing of the EDPM program on the machine.

8. Prepares a complete write-up of the problem -- including machine cperating
instructions, a list of machine stop codes, and an explicit set of instructions
for emergency operations.

QUALIFICATIONS

l. Educational Background: high school education or equivalent. Since programming
is a precise and logical operation, a college education znd a knowledge of
mathematics is desirable; However, it is not essential. EAM experience is helpful
but not essential.

2. Natural Ability and Aptitude: a number of aptitude tests have been developed to
measure the lildihood of success in the programming field. A suitable aptitude
test will be used to select candidates in this field.


Page. 7 of 10

3. Previous Experience: experience ‘has revealed that there are certain professional
fields that are potential sources for good programmers. Graduates of certain
colleges, particularly those teaching numerical analysis in the udergraduate
curriculum, have proven to be en excellent source of programmers.

4. Technical Skills: a training in EAM equipment is desirable but not essential.

9. Compatibility: the need to get along with other individuals outside theo EDFM
group . is strongly dependent on the mode of operation. In a closed-shop”
programming operation the programmer accepts a problem statement from the
originator and carries through the entire analysis, programming, coding, and
machine solution. It is, therefore, important that a closed-shop programmer
be able to get along with the problem eriginater.

6. Aczsuracy: the preparation of machine Programs is a costly and expensive operation.
Obviously a person who can Write accurate machine instructions is extremely
valuable. For example, a top-notch programmer recently prepared a program of
6,000 instructions in 34 hours --= containing oziy 1 error. Accuracy is most

Te Bete APpesEanGe: the eal for attractive el egsential,

TRAINING PERIOD

A complete course in the programming field will reguive a minimm of six (6) intensive
weeks in a training course followed by 4-6 months of actual programming experience
before one obtains any degree of proficiency.

 

10/27/56

bm be RE .. Ee —TTTTTT


M.I.T. Computation Center Page 8 of 10
Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING ANALYST

DESCRIPTION

An EDPM analyst may have a different background depending upon the particular EDFM
operation. For example, if the EDPM operation is primarily one of data processing,
the analyst should be skilled in methods and procedures, work flow methods, flow
charting techniques, time motion studies, ¢c. On the other hand, a systems analyst
in a scientific computing center should be well versed in mathematics and numerical
analysis.

DUTIES

The duties are similar to those of the programmer except that the analyst is expected
to delve more deeply into the basic mathematical statement -- performing certain
mathematical researches and developing suitable numerical methods for solution.

QUALIFICATIONS

The qualifications are identical to those of a programmer except that more emphasis
is given to the basic sciences. Specifically, a knowledge of numerical analysis,
finite differences, statistical methods, probability theory, operations research,
methods and procedures, etc.


M.1I.T. Computation Cenier Page 9 of 10

Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE CONSOLE OPERATOR

DUTIES

The console operator operates the Electronic Data Processing Machine (EDFM) including
the cemtral processing unit (CPU), the console, and all "on-line equipment, such as
the magnetic tape units, magnetic drum unit, card reader, card punch, and the line

printer, wespectively. He operates the CPU and associated equipment from the
operator console.

He must recognize the condition of the machine from the display of lights on the
console and thus interpret the reason for any stoppages which occur during normal
machine processing. He must be able to take immediate action based on his

interpretation of machine stoppage. He =eeps a record of all stops and causes for
later diagnosis.

He is in charge of the EDPM operators speciiying which units are to be used, which
nagnetic tapes are involved, how wesults are To be recorded, etc. Since the 700 series
machines are extremely expensive devices (rental costs average approximately |
$12/minute), it is extremely important that the console operator be a qualified man!

QUALIFICATIONS |
1. Educational Backgrounds "High school education or equivalent is essential,

© 2. Natural Ability and Aptidude: ability to get along with people and direct the
work of others is essential. He must make rapid decisions since machine time is
expensive.

3. Previous Bxperience: a knowledge of EAM has pyoven to be extremely helpful.
It is estimated that a minimum of three months is required to train a good
console operator.

4, Technical Skills: experience has shown that electyonic technicians, EAM machine
operators, etc., develop into excellent EDFM console operators.

5. Compatibility: since the EDFM console opeyvator is in charge of all machine
cperations, it is imperative that he be able to get along with various programmers,
and other machine users. Depending on the mode of operation, his contacts may be
with a single scheduler-dispatcher or with many company employses. Perscnal
compatibility veguirements will vaxy accordingly.

6. Physical Appearance: a well-grcomed appearance is desirable, particularly in the
© "M.T.T. Computation Center where the equipment will be of a "showplace" cheracter.

7. Accuracy: Errors are extremely costly resulting in major financial losses to
the company. Hence, they should be minimized.


M.I.T. Computation Center

 

Page 10 of iQ
Title of Position: ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING MACHINE ASSISTANT OPERATOR

DUTIES

The duties of the assistant operator are identical to those of the operator. The
machine operator should be capable of operating the console as well as the various
peripheral equipment associated with an EDPM installation. He is usually concerned
with the card-to-tape, tape-to-card, and tape-to-printer equipment. He frequently
changes magnetic reels of tape, inserts paper forms inte the printer, feeds cards
into the machines, changes control plugboards, wires control panels from wiring
diagrams, and maintains a reasoncble machine-roon atmosphere.

QUALIFICATIONS

The qualifications of the assistant operator are the same as those for the console
operator,


