Need for Support -~ The capacity of the Center to handle
increasing aemandS'ga~IIbited by lack of full-time staff to aid the
users in solving their problems and to develop programs and auxiliary
eguipment to make the machine easier to use. This staff must be of
high quality, able to teach classes and also to participate in

research in machine logic and numerical analysis. The Center operates
on the "open-shop" plan, the user doing his own coding and other
preparation work, but many users need help in finding the most

efficient way to organize their program, and all of them would save

time if more utility programs and more flexible input-output equip-

ment were available. An intensive project for the development of
techniques and facilities to make the machine easier to use by the
occasional user has been initiated. This proJject will require financilal
support if it is to be carried out in time to be of help to users in

the next few years.

Development of Utility Programs - In addition to assisting
jndividual users in putting EEE problem on the wachine, the Center
staff have the important task of making the machine easier to use by
all users. It always takes time, The experience of many users, to
reveal all the capabilities of any piece of machinery; this 1s partl-
cularly true of high-speed computers. Because of Their speed and
complexity it will take a dozen years or more before even the full
capabilities of our present machines are known, and by that time machines
of still more speed and complexity will be bullit. A computer of the
gize of the TO4¥ has an order of complexity such that its designers
literally are not aware of all of its capabilities. Consequently 1t is
important that research into these capabilities be carrled on; such
research, revealing easier ways of obtaining results and new methods of
operation, may at times go farther in increasing machine serviceability
for the general user than can the providing of a new machine wifth
increased speed or capacity.

A few years ago a machine user had to become familiar with
binary arithmetic and with all the other idioscynerasies of The primary
machine operating code, just as the early auto owner had to be familiar
with spark and choke and clutch. As time goes on it is less and less
necessary for the occasional user to master all these details in order ;
to use the machine, even if he has to devise a program for a new prodlem.
In the first place, many of the more usuval calculations will have been
already programmed so That, for example, if one wishes to compute a
Bessel function or to apply the chi-squared test for the £it of a
formula to a set of data, one need only use the ready-tested program.
In the second place, it is possible to provide a helrarchy of "trans-
lation procedures" -~ assembly and operator programs, etc. -- whereby
the machine itself will translate the desires of the user, expressed
irn language more familiar to him, into the specialized “language" of
the basic machine code. This may be termed programming at the second