August 11, 16861
£/t

Dr. Po M. Morse
Room 6=-109

Deer Dr. Horse:

I am writing you prior to leaving on my vacation. Durimg the
next week, I will be attending a conference on computation at Emdicott,
How York, end will be givimg a paper there on Friday. The following
weeks 1 shell be enjoying & much-needed rest. Before leaving, however,
I thought that I should drop you & brief note deseribing the sctivities
of the personnel who are with us on this training progrem.

As you know, I have three of the rescarch assistants here; namely,
Mise Altman, Mr. Corbato and MNr. Temkin, and they heve mede very good prog=-
ress up to this time. 7The generel plan has been to give each of them rather
voluminous notes on the principles of operstion of the mechines. These notes
were carefully studied by them for approximately a week during which actual
use of the machines wes made, end then each was given e particular problem
to assist on. For exemple, Corbasto, who was the first one to join the group,
sterted out by becoming familiar with the work we are doing on the colutien
of simultaneous equations, inversion of metrices, oto. and he assisted on
the problem in which we are inverting & 24 x 24 matrix. Shortly after that,
we converted the existing technigues for solution en the new 604 Ilectronic
Galeculetor, and he has since become guite femiliar with the preparsticn of
instructions for this mechine.

I have taken the liberty of informing these people thet you wiil
probably hold a eeminar this fall, as we did last yesr, in which each of
them will he expected to contribute something., With this view in mind, I
have gpiven each a reseerch assignwent. OSpecifically, Corbsto has been given
the problem of formulating an IBM method of solving erystel struoture computa-
tions. We have for & number of yeers et the Imstitute been carrying on IEM
work of this type for various people in the Geology amd Electrical Engineering
Departments. At the present time, we are deing work for a Dr, Abrahams, who
is et MIT on & fellowship of some sorte. Corbate has done & nice job of formu-
lating the 604 spproach to this problem, and T have requested that he prepare
& complete writeup of this work for possible presentation at a seminar - -
pending your aepprovel of course. Tn addition, he has been able to assist
with the work that we sre doing for Professor Slater on the Schribdinger
problem, the detalls of whioch you are familiar with,

Yiss Altmap has been given 2 research essignment dealing with the
evaluetion of cherescteristic numbers of matrices using the IEM approach.
After much resesrch and {ormulation, we are now mechanizing the iterative
method of solution of such problems. The details of this work will await
further progresse.

e