THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA

«..University of North Carolina in CHAPEL HILL ~ North Carolina State College of
Agriculture and Engineering in RALEIGH ~ The Woman's College in GREENSBORO

JOHN W. CARR, III, Director

CHAPEL HILL, NORTH CAROLINA
COMPUTATION CENTER February 27, 1961

RA,

~d ¢ A M
V { |

\D.%% ~ BR Yala. ; \ y pier) Ng
3 —y M-t¥v

Professor Philip Morse

Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

Professor Jean Kuntzmann of the Laboratoire de Calcul of the University of
Grenoble, visiting lecturer in numerical analysis at the University here
during the month, will be visiting New York and New England during the
week of March 13.

Professor Kuntzmann' s laboratory is now in the process of obtaining a large-
scale computer (of the size and speed of the IBM-7090), which when accomp-
lished, will give the University one of the most advanced equipments of any
university in Europe. Special groups working in nuclear physics, language
translation (Vaquois), and numerical analysis (Kuntzmann himself, with
others ) will make use of the computer in research projects.

For this reason, Grenoble may certainly become a computational center of
France. Professor Kuntzmann has suggested that he would like to visit

U. S. centers where both undergraduates and graduate students use digital
computers during their training, and also as research tools for dissertations
and other projects. M. I. T. is a very obvious candidate. He would also

like to talk to numerical analysts about research going on in numerical methods.

If it would be possible for Professor Kuntzmann to visit M. I. T. informally
and meet with those members of the Computation Center and mathematics
department staffs whose interests are similar to his own, I know it would
turn out mutually useful. His plans require that he be at Brown University
on March 16, and IBM New York and Yorktown on March 17, so if such a
visit could be made on March 15, it would suit his schedule. There is
obviously no need for any elaborate arrangements, but brief views of the
Computation Center and conversations with interested staff members would
certainly contribute to his visit to the U. S. A.


