Reprinted from
QUARTERLY or APPLIED MATHEMATICS
Vol. XI, No. 1, April, 1953

TWO NEW NON—LINEARIZED CONICAL FLOWS*

BY
J. Hi GIESE (Ballistic Research Laboratories, Aberdeen Proving] Ground, Md.)
AND HﬁH’MLWayne University)

1. Introduction. A steady compressible non-viscous ﬂow is conical if it contains a.
vertex P, such that on evely half line through P the velocity components, pressure,
density, and entropy are constant. Various linearized conical ﬂows have been discussed
by numerous authors. However, only three examples of non—linearized conical potential
ﬂow ﬁelds are known to exist mathematically: Prandtl—Meyer ﬂow around an edge [4]1
with or Without sweep; Taylor-Maccoll ﬂow about a non-yawing circular cone [5] ; and
an axisymmetric ﬂow through a convergent nozzle discussed by Busemann [1]. In this
paper the construction of two new examples will be considered. Both contain two regions
of swept Prandtl-\Ieyer ﬂow. In the ﬁrst, the boundary has been chosen to prevent
them from interacting, and the hodograph is one-dimensional. From it can be obtained
a ﬂow, with attached plane shock, over an object resembling an airplane with a swept-
forward wing of positive dihedral and with a thick ﬁn, In the second, the boundary has
been chosen to permit interaction and the hodograph is two-dimensional. It was studied
originally in the hodograph space by one of the authors [2]. In the present treatment, the
need to consider possible difﬁculties in constructing the ﬂow ﬁeld from a knowledge of
the hodograph has been avoided by conﬁning the discussion to the physical space. It
should also be remarked that in both examples the second order partial differential
equation for conical potential ﬂow is of mixed type.

A pair of these examples could conceivably be used to study a particular, atypical
case of wing~body interference. Numerical results can easily be calculated, if necessary,
with the aid of a characteristics table and by means of standard techniques for numerical
integration of ordinary differential equations and numerical solution of characteristic
initial value problems for second order hyperbolic partial differential equations in two
independent variables.

2. Fundamental Ideas. The velocity potential function of a steady irrotational
non—viscous isentropic ﬂow satisﬁes

(aQSH — u.u,)82¢/6.r. 6x, = 0 (2.1)
where .1),- (t‘ = 1, 2, 3) are rectangular coordinates,
u.» = Law/ax. (2.2)
is the velocity component parallel to the x;-axis in units of the maximum speed of ﬂow,
a2 = 1/2(“/ — 1X1 * 14.11,) = 1/2(7 — 1)(1 — (13) (2.3)

is the square of the velocity of sound, Kronecker’s delta 6,, = 1(0) ii i = (#) j, and the
convention has been adopted that repeated indices imply summation over their range.
If g2 = u.u.- > a2, the flow is supersonic, and there exist real characteristic surfaces,
which are envelopes of the Mach cones

[ua(m’¥ — 1.912 = ((12 - awe". - mm — x.) (24)

‘Received April 17. 1952.
‘Numbers in brackets designate references listed at the end of the paper.