7

 

Minutes of the Meeting of Institutional Representatives
to the M.I.T. Computation Center, held December 19, 1956.

Verzuh reviewed the progress of building of the quarters for
the Center in the new Compton Laboratories and plans for the
installation of the 704. It appears now that the 704 will be in.
some time in March. =

Morse reported on development of financlal support for the
staff of the Center. In addition to the National Science Foundae
tion grant, the Rockefeller Foundation has given a grant of about
$100,000 for three years for the support of the soclal science
aspects of use of high speed computers. Morse asked the repre-
sentatives to explore the possibilities of research in the social
sciences with machine applications, among their colleagues, and to
get in touch with the Center in regard to promlsing leads. Coples
of the memo to the Rockefeller Foundation outlining some possible
research projects in this field are being sent the Institutional
Representatives under separate cover. Coples of announcements for
I.B.M. assistantships and related application forms and recommenda-
tion forms are also being sent the Representatives. ;

Verzuh outlined some of the other administrative forms which
will be necessary in the use of the machine by participants in
the program. Copies of these forms willl be sent later, nearer
the time when the machine is in operation. Verzuh also distrib-
uted a new listing of SHARE subroutines. The dis%ribution of
SHARE and other I.B.-M. material was discussed by Hunter. It
appears that most of the material is getting to most of the
schools. The Center, however, stands ready to be of help if
needed.

Morse pointed out that a progress report on developments at
participating schools and at M.I.T. would need to be produced
early in 1957 to send to I.B.M. and other supporting groups. He
requested the Institutional Representatives to collect such
reports and send them in to the Center early in January. Coples
of this status report will be sent each Representative when it is
published.

Morse pointed out that at the next meeting of the Representa-
tives it would be necessary to start consideration of applications
for I.B.M. assistantships for the academic year 1957-58. He asked
the Representatives to get such applications in as early as pose
sible so that action can be taken fairly early in the spring term.

Phil Morse, Directo

M.I.T. Computation Center


Minutes of Institutional Representatives

Meeting of December 19, 1956

Those present at Dec. 19, 1956 meeting:

N. Arden
J. Corbatd

W. Essigman
L. Falkoff

Gasteyer
G. CGuindon
T. Hunter
W. Jordan
K. Knipp
IL. Korgen
McCarthy
M. Morse
H. Orcutt
H. Owens
Prager
Rorholm

M. Sakoda
Scheid

W. Southworth
M. Verzuh

M. I. T.

BM. I. T-.
Northeastern
Brandeis
Wesleyan
Boston College
I. B. M.
Williams

Tufts

Bowdoin
Dartmouth

M. I. T.
Harvard

New Hampshire U.
Brown

Rhode Island U.
Connecticut U.
Boston U.

Yale

M. 1. Ts

Page 2


