PROGRAMMING AIDS:

Since the arrival of the equipment to augment our 650 there has been a
noticeable increase in the cost of SOAPing a program. This, of course, is be-
cause the existing SOAPs, do not utilize the hardware configuration at hand.
After discussing this problem with others we decided to write a new SOAP rou-
tine which would use the machine as we have it. (Indexing registers, floating
point, and immediate access storage.) A prototype deck was demonstrated in
Austin, Texas on May 2, 1959. This deck was by no means final, but established
some retrieval of lost costs over basic SOAP,

The proposed SOAP X is in its evolutionary stages with each mew feature
coming at the expense of painful searches for locations. Contrary to popular
belief the I.A.S. does not give a 60 word extension of memory if used for more
than one subroutine. The first intent of SOAP X is to increase speed, the

- second is to maintain compatibility. SOAP X will accept programs written in

CASE SOAP III language completely. Ideas gleaned from the work of others such
as IBM, Carnegie Tech, Wisconsin, etc. have been weighed and added if feasible.
Some new features for utilization of the IAS have developed, as previously,
through the needs of those actually doing the programming.

Such subjects as '"Macro' instructions have been evaluated and finally re-
jected due to memory limitations. SOAP X is designed for machines without bulk
storage units. The use of Carnegie Tech's TASS routine is suggested for such
fortunate users. An optional feature in the utilization of SOAP X is the util-
ization of a 407-on-line accounting machine for immediate listings of the single
instruction output. By this technique it is possible to get your one per card
listings while assembling and get a five per card deck corresponding to the
program. (l/card and 5/card output are still available by MIX operation.)

There is obviously some question as to the appropriateness of publishing
the notice of a program prior to completion. This would not have been done
but for the academic year nature of this bulletin. It is anticipated that full
doccumentation including decks and wiring diagrams will be available prior to
the start of the fall semester. Since we would not be able to communicate
through this medium until that time we decided to6 pre-announce ARIZONA SOAP X
early., This of course puts the job on a ful 'crash' basis. Since the decks of
individual intended features run, we feel confident of our ability to merge
them. Of course, a period of error testing is necessary to permit our friends
use of a reasonably bug-free routine.

We encourage our readers to comment on their needs in the realm of SOAP
type operations and we will attempt to analyze the application to SOAP X. The
overall intent is the greatest utility to the greatest number of users in-
cluding ourselves,

 

@