WRT

Sl SEAT

= a
TTT

Wages
.

IRR

rl TR a

Alda

ne JPR
Nm di EL AR
é {

oy

dol

St
Na

: : wy
: EY
. , athe
RE - alt
EE ee eB Ee

AP Sr T— -
. La y ¥ ETE § it a . »
\ : ms 1 Ie) . to.
4 ho
¥ ' X . ) TA% u CoE ‘
} . » : 1 SE FU A

re
iN

Tm

+ A Su "i A
RCSL an Al INT ER

 

February 3, 1956

Mr. Fletcher Jones

Secretary, SHARE

North American Aviation, Inc.
International Airport

Los Angeles 45, California

Dear Mr. Jones:

 

Today I received the "final tentative agenda” of the fourth meeting
of SHARE, and I would like to make the following comments by letter since
we will pot be repvesented in person:

 

 

1. The MIT senior programming staff are currently giving some thought
to the development of an interpretive algebraic sysiem -- it is too
early to make definite statements regarding specifications. However,
it is quite obvious that the key punches and interpreters ghould have
a number of modifications which will increase the utility of their
system, We concur with the UAC proposal of December 30 regarding
modifications to key punches and interpreters.

3, Since we at MIT are hoping to use the UAC system, we are very
interested in Ramshaw's "new 704 instructions and hardward" as
described in his letter of December 23. Although we have not had
time to make s thorough evaluation of the 30 additional instruction,
we gee no arvoas of disagreement. We are very much in favor of the
suggestion yvegarding the RPG on automatic carriage control as stated
in Ramshaw's letter of January 10.

3. Your task assignments of the subcommittee on programming, ete.,
appear very satisfactory. We hope we can "set into the act” before
too iong.

4, in connection with the "eonfiguration of the computer of the next
seminar at MIT on March 1 and 2 dealing with Microprogramming. 5 ES |

has promised to issue proceedings of this meeting, hence interested
parties may get copies of them, ™ i

5. Since the number of 704's in the field is limited, it appears to us |
that IEM should be able to notify SHARE membership of individual RPQ's.

6. We are very much interested in the SHARE decision regarding obligations, |
ote. Presumably this matter will be decided at the meeting. |


Mr, Fletcher Jones a February 3, 1956

7. SHARE activities during the balance of 1956 are of considerable
interest to us, I think Parageaph 2 of the January 10 tentative
agenda is substantially correct, and I would like to know how we
may best participate in order to avoid "slacking off" operations.

I imagine there will be an'intensification of local activities in

New England, New York, Los Angeles, and other areas. If past
experience is a basis for decision, we would very much like to see

2 monthly check sheet since it would tend to integrate a 704 operation.

8. 1 am enclosing the machine delivery date and configuration check list
which you sent to me. As you know, this information is subject to
change by IBM. I believe the succeeding items on this agenda can best
be handled in discussions at the meeting.

Mr. Douglas Ross, who is speaking at the Western Joint Computer Conference,
has agreed to attend the SHARE meeting as a “listener” to bring back information
to MIT. However, since he is not a member of the Digital Computer Laboratory,
he will not be prepared to express the opinions of the Digital Computer
Laboratory group.

In regard to the SHARE address list, I hesitate to mention this, but there
are a few errors in my particular listing. I have indicated below the preferred
mailing address and associated telephone number,

Dr, Frank M. Verzuh UN 4-8900, Ext, 637
Kassachugetts Institute of Technology

77 Massachusetts Avenue

Canlwidge 36, Massachusetts

Perhaps you can enclose the correct listing in the proceedings of the fourth
meeting, or in your next revision of this mailing list.

I am sorry that my plans do not permit ne ito attend the San Fransisco
meeting. However, I wish you the best of luck for a noble undertaking.

Sincerely yours,

F. BM. Verzuh
Director

FMV:nb
Enclosure


