'Ihere ere tour principel espects o! the investigetion o! the
behavior of individuels with respect to lebor force perticipetion. In
the first plece, there is the prohlee of defining perticipeti. itselt.
This is the nimble. at detining the outputs or dependent veriebles. The
following types of questions ere involved. low neny hours per week or
weeks in the year met an individnel work or seek work in order to qualily
u e labor force pnrticipnnt? Ihst criteria should we adopt for deciding
Ihsther an individual who is working pert tine or no tine is reelly seeking
full tine eeploynent, i,e., ﬁether he is e {Ill or pert tine lebor force
perticipent? het constitutes "seeking" Inlay-at? lhonld se drew n line
between hill end pert tine participstion or should se recognise e continuous
gredetion? hell we define participation on the hesis of In instenteneons
state or s condition over en interval of thee?

'Ihere being s considernble evolution and litereture relnting
to these detinitionel prom-s,1 we shell not I“ to it, but nerely ndopt
the current definitions which see- to suit our needs end which will per-it
us to neke use or the lost pronising sveilnhle deta. An stteqt will he
ends, however, to recognise gredetions 0! current ettechnent to the labor
force on the hesis of hours worked per week.‘

”the second upset oi the problee reletes to the independent
veriahles or inputs, on the heeis of which we shell seek to explain perti-
cipetion end turnover. As has nlroedy been indiceted, these will be
thought at he falling in the following cetegoriee:

l. Cherncteristies of the individuel end his fenily

n. Denogrnphic

h. loononic

c. Iducationel

d. Pest stetus with respect to the lehor torce
2. Charecteristics of the individual's environ-ent

a. legion

h. Urbenination

c. Industrial structure of the surrounding lsbor
nsrhet ere-

W
1 Bee pages 1-5 at the ettsched peper.

- Degree or ettechncnt in the past, he explanatory variable, will be
recognised by considering the nunber of weeks worked during the
previous year. .