DIGITAL COMPUTER LABORATORY
Massachusetis Insiituie of Technology
Cambridge 32, Massachusetts

MEMORANDURM

June 27, 1957
To:  Present MIT Users of the Whirlwind I Computer

From: Dr, F, ido Verzuh
Dr, F. L., Fogter

Re: Termination g_g g_g Use of the Whirlwind I 'Mputor

AR AR e e -+ P et et i

 

.- — . — e

 

— —— L — o —— o e

 

The MIT users of the Whirlwind I Computer woepe informed last July of the.
Institute’s plan to discontinue usage of the Whirlwind machine after the installation
of the IBM 704 EDPM in the new MIT Computation Center. At the meeting on
February 4, present Whirlwind users were informed of the plans regarding the uge
of the 704 Computer, and in particular were informed of the steps which should be
taken to couvert Whirlwind programs to the 704 language so that these problens
might be run on the 704 Computer. After very careful consideration of the Bany
aspects regarding this transition, the decision bas been made to transfer full
regponsibility for Whirlwind I from the Digital Computer Laboratory to Lincoln
Laboratory effective July 31, 1957,

 

The Type 704 Computer was placed into actual omration for MIT use on
June 10, 1957, It is currently used for two ghifts per day -- 5 days per week,
The computer will be placed into 3-ghift operation ss soon as the compliting load
requires the additionnl shift,

In most cases arrangements have been made to convert Vhirlwind programs to the
Type 704 Computer. In other cases, this transition is currently in praocess, The
prime purpose of this memorandum is to inform present EI;T Whirlwind userg that the
Whirlwind facility will not be generally available after July 31; honee, the
transition must be completed very scon!

If you need assistance in converiing to the 704 machine, pletse contact
Mr, Jack Romeman at the Barta Building,

It is recognized that some DSR projects way have a continuing need for time
on Whirlwind I on a temporary basis., Such necds should bs made known in writing
to the DSR Headquarters before July 31, 1957, so that arrangements may be worked
out to satigily the needs.

b= e - %
NS Yok
¥, L, Foster, Director

Divigion of Sponsored Regssarch

 

f

Do j f';
j \ / : A ‘ k;
v |. (UL A

e . O ———— Tt e e e e A . e i i, W e 0 W B MGt g

F, B, Verzuh, Head 0
Scientific and Engineering Computations
Group

3

el