Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.,

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation
= : and Utilization--Investigation into

the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the

methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental

research; Including studies of numerical analysis and machlne pro-

gramming wethods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete

mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis

.and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such

specific applications of machine techniques to problems in science,
englineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view. *

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Perlod: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further suppcrt is advisable,

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organizing what
should be one of the most fruitful centers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM 1s contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxliliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing scme of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physlics, and industrial management. The machlne will be available,
35 or wmore hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT '
research in the Center wlll be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basls, to other colleges in New England. Already
25 institutions have indicated their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty mewbers to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participatihg colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machline by students and staff of their institution.
IBM 18 providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facllities, there 1s an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and baslic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in sclence, engineering,
and busliness, A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordlnate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine