MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
GE DIVISION OF INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASS. ’ :

April 16, 1954

"7 ewes OF THE DIRECTOR | DIC-#7019

ki
- Commander
Wright Alr Development Uenier /
Wright-Patterson Air Foree Base
Ohio /

Attention: Lt. @. R. Thompson, WCECR
| Reference: Oontresct AF 33(616)-128 ~
1 Dear Bix:

In ascerdance with reeent discussions between WADC and MIT
technical personrel, there le forwarded herewith a revised proposal
for & 12 months! extensien of The reference comirast starting
January 1, 1958, without additional funds. Thie propos’ supersedes
cur proposal forwarded by letter dated March 10, 1958.

It is recomménded that the proposed research progres eR-
gles of the following studies and investigations:

1. A study of bouadary-value and eigeavalus problems whieh
are frequently encountered in the solution of ordimary
differential equations. The proposed study will eem-
glider methods of solution amenable for sclutior by
means of the differential analyzer, the REA, and ether
digital machines.

9. Ap investigation of the feasibility of solving integral
equations efficisntly by means of eomputing equipment.

3. An javestigation of the solution of certain types ef
glgebraie equations (e.g.,; the solution of simul taneous
equations wilh 41i-conditioned matrices, evaluation of
cheracteristic roots of matriess, 6t6...) by means of
available somputing squipment.

8. A etudy of the variavion determination of simply ans
1ytie wave TURSTLONE] for use ia the calsculatiom eof
{onization potentials, multiplet separations, radiation
intensities, and other properties of atoms eontalning
is, 28 and 2p glegirons.

Phe Gontragtor shall continue to submit quarterly progress
reports and WADO vashni eal Reports on the above work.

 

 

-— en —————


TO: Cdr, WADC -2 = April 16, 195k

Phe principal investigator of this program will be Profes-
ser P. M. Morse, for whom ne charge 18 being made; and the group
will be direst ted by br. ¥, MH, VYeorzun.

it is understood that the Government shall furnish sush
late, information end equipment as may be nesessary in the perfersm-
158% Of ¥Yhis WoOrE.

The estimated budget required to conduet this researah
program for a twelve-month period beginning January 1, 1954 is as

“5 = Cz - = - Be ’ . a) Nal
galeries and Wegesg® $ §,066

: p se m2 wed Bm ha
Overhead &% 30.7% of above 3,303

Berviese Charges Tor Eigh-8peed
o re mn a er iy >
Computing Equipmeny 2,500

Seeretarial and Administrative Charges 600

Sateriale, Forms and Publication Charges coo

Pravel, Telephons and other Direst Charges CL 590

 

POFAL FOR A "WELVE-MOWTH PERIOD $16,563

“Phe item for Belaries end Wages includes the part-time gexrvioces
o¥X Tour (4) professional GNZLASEXS TAs part-time services of four
] operating persornel, and the part-time
g 3 SR@ S6oretas ¥*7. The exaset Aumber of PRTE=EL He PErscnRel

sey vary, depending upen the degrees of participation.

fads

iG [HM SEPSrviaory &i

ml (a SST Yd
a (tg NG

Very truly yours,

Ld

PLY oO EROS


