April 13, 1959

Academician A, A, Dorodnitsin
Divector, Computation Center
Acadermny of Sciences

Moscow

U. 8. 8. R.

Dear Academician Dorodnitsin:

Since last September I have, as you can see, become Director of the Research
Computation Center at the University of North Carclina at Chapel Hill., We
will have as our computer to use the Univac 1105, an equipment similar to

the two which are now being used by the Bureau of Census in Waghington to
process the 1960 U. S. Census. It has over 8, (00 words of magnetic core
storage, 32,000 words of drum storage, and 17 Uniservo tape units,

e plan to have 2 Summer Conference on Frontier Research in Digital
Computers from August 17-28 here in Chapel Hill, similar to the one held

last year in Ann Arbor. I am enciosing a copy of the announcement, After
this the A. C. M. is to have its National Meeting in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
September 1, 2, aand 3. —— ———

 
 
 

DS
I have written invitatigns to Dr. Ershohnd Proiessor Kaniorovich, copies
of which are enclosed, \aviting them to-give each a series of ten lectures at
the Conference, in the same fashion you and your colleagues did last year
at Ann Arbor, under 2 similar agreement. After these lectures, Professor
Perlis and I would be pleased to have them go with us to Cambridge.

Unfortunately our conference here will not have courses aimed at the design
and construction of actual hardware, and I have not been able, therefore, to
invite any of your Soviet computer design colieaguss to talk in such sessions.
However, as I have indicated in the two invitations, if you and Academician
Lebedev feel that yvou would like to suggest a larger group of attendess, (one
or two more), I would be pleased to hear such a suggestion.

These lectures, of course, are based as beiore on the agreements on exchange
of persons between the U. 5. A. and U. 5. 5. R,, and we would expact that

a similar invitation would be issued to a corresponding number of U. S,
computer scientists to visit your establishments and lecture to your or

similar groups. In particular, I have talked to Ben Mittman of Armour
Research Foundation, who could lecture in Russian about the Computational