TO:
FROM:
DATE:

 

 

MEMORANDUM 3

Professor P. M. Morse |
Frank M. Verzuh
July 6, 1965 |
Reorganization Plens for Digital Computer Laboratory

The purpose of this memorandum is to describe the present status of
reorganization plans at the Digital Computer ILaboratory. On Tuesday, July 5,
Messrs. Deen Arden, Jack Porter, and F. M. Verzuh me® with Messrse.

J. W, Forrester, Robert R. BEverett, and Clarence Farr at Lincoln to discuss
the proposed reorganiszation plen which I described to youe In addition to
the proposed reorganization, various other factors were considered. They are
ag followss

1, Forrester felt that it would be impossible to consider using any
space at the Barbe Building for Type 700 EDPM equipment.

2. Lincoln expects to conbinue their use of Whirlwind at the present
level through December 31, 1956.

8, Forrester felt thet Lincoln use of the Whirlwind Computer would
probably continue for an additional 3 or 4 yearses

4, Everett felt that the present interchange of information between
Lineoln and the M.I.T. Digital Computer group should bejmaintained.
Tt was recommended that & contract be negotiated between the two
groups which would provide 2 to 4 man years of "programing and
mathematical research for Lincoln Laboratory" during the fiscal
period 1956~19566.

5. Group 61, Division 6 of the Lincoln Laboratory, is now examining the
advissbility of their procuring a Type 702 for their use. (The machine
under congideration is the prototype 702 machine currently installed ‘
in the IBM Leboratory at Poughkeepsie and which will be available as
soon as it is replaced by & Type 705 machine)e A definite decision
was not made concerning this matter since there are a nwmber of factors
to be considered.

6. Forrester approved the proposed reorganization plans for the Digital
Computer Laboratory and felt that they were satisfactory, although he
thought that there might be a number of problems arising during the
gourse of their execution,

Above Ttems 1, 2, and 3 have a pertinent bearing on Tthe.. long-range plans
for the addition of the Type 704 during 1956+ Specifically, space must be found
in some building other than the Barta Building since Lineoln will con®inue to
use Bartas

The proposed contrect mentioned in Item 4 ebove is %o be written for the
fiscal period 1955-1966 in such a way as to provide 2 to 4 man years of effort.
Mr. Charles Weiser is currently preparing & DIC contract which should be
mubtually agreeable,

I am now becoming familiar with the administrative procedures currently in
effect at Computer Leboratory and I shall have a proposal concerning this matter
in your hands for your meeting with Dr. Stratton on Thursday, July 7.

F. Ms Verzuh