(Q @P

Wrtght Air Fevelopmsnt Center
ﬁright-Pattcrscn Air Fare: EGIC

Diytm, Ohio
Attx Lt. Col. 5‘ g. Heggx, USA? swﬁgal

Subjae‘: gnn‘rnc% Ara: 616 —128
ggpcndivutc ‘ er ﬁg. 8—468 53-;

rear Coluncl Henryl

Kevnnbor 25. 1952

This lcxtcr it to Inform you that thc fallawtng
rtport:
“ﬁoluilon or ﬂounaary-Vhlue Prub1¢ms an
Automatic sampuung Equipment.
covering thc work of the quarterly paricd ending August 51,
he {allcwlng nearest:

1952 Is being mailcd preptld to t

AF 909 50

Servlet Arts Bldg. 256
Hrsghtvvlttarucn hit Fore. ﬁasa
ﬁaytan. Ghio

Attn: WCRR.

I lnformcd Er. b. P. Little during the sarly part
on this ccnlract would mat

of the summer that the activity

be initiated in full voluma on June l, 1952 because a! the
persurnal precuremant problem. This, in part, explains the
delay in tha submissios of this first quartarly r23crl.

The other reason I! simply that there are over 300 pages

in the rmport and its preparation was an exceedingly time-
can$um1ng task. ﬁt any rate, one reproducible (a transparent
azalic§ and faur copies are being submitted under separate

COVST -

l Hish to emphasiza that only a partlon of the werk

regresvnted by this report wag performed uaing funds cf this
Contract. Egacificelly, this thesis ragtesents several years‘

work, and it is owly the fina; stages of it which were aerfermed
during this quarterly period.


j T 7; (

fiquﬁ pa» ovember 25, 1952
\_/4 ‘

Attached yam will find an abstract of tLis thesis
r~ art which All! give you an séva at its content. i hope
this rill be helpful in you.

L‘.Colcnel H

 

in ecucluslan, I wish t5 state that tb: succeeding
prccreas reports will Hot be as tardy as thig cne. ﬁpcclfi-
cally, uuarterly nencrt ﬁe. 2 is ta *9 tubmittea t‘ the
wrintzr an Eecember lst, and yea should receiva it as seen
as the succseding publication technicalities will permit.

Very truly yours.

3. %. Varzuh
{tractor
V=T

LC: ndm. mffice £wALC)
5:. k. F. Littln
brFref. P. %. Worse (M11)


v .5
1 m
. tr ;
1 M W 11 E;
‘ 1
This report is primariiy caneernud with the solution 1
of boundary-value prmhlsma by means of automntie ceaputing

equipment (bath unalaguc and élgltal). 3peclflcally, la

addition in the familiar dilk calculator, the follewina

1

1

1

1

1 digit-1 computtrs were usld in this study: the typ: ﬁGZA
1 Electromechanical (alcalator, the typc 504 Elsctranlc
1

1

1

1

1

1

Calculator, the Curd Programmed ﬁaleulator, and the M.X.T.

khirlwiné Computar. Th3 Inﬁleguc studies aura ahtaxncd by
uaa of the §.I.T. Rockeflller ﬂittcrentiaz Anniyzct.

Th1. study 15 primnrily ¢en¢crand with tau solution

or ardsnnry sirtarcntial cqunticn: in which certain boundnr
‘ candttioa. tr. tycclrtoé at w

5 3 er meg: values 0! tbs
Indapcnnunt vtrinbzt. Such problcas are

1 1 guntrally called
1 boundary-Vila: vrnblcnn.

1 1

1

1

It is axenrxy evident that thl
solution of such problem: is inhercntl

y mar. difficult than
tn. solntxsn er instlagovttue problem: In which all candim

{ions urn specif c 0 ans point. In. particulnr yrabloa;

studlcd Ara fnrther ccnplicataﬁ hy t»: fict that their

aalutlans Ira rcqulrcd avcr tn inttnjto rang. which :un*
tllns region: a! nea-snllyticl‘y.

 

,
h canyutAtlennl phlleﬁephy is prancntnd which tmpht- A
1 also: thlt : muchsao must he cv‘luatnd an a firm engineering
tad cannons: hlnlgc-c busts whieh must {helmet the ntire
1 camputatlonnl praceauro. ﬁn evaluntxon is givtn of :55.
1' relut1Vt :dvnatngtu and limit-tings of the fivu computers
11 usyn in this study. A tugr mvnluttlen must £nc£ud¢ the
1 tin: for: problaa pvcpnratiaa, aquarium! annlyslu,
1 programming. coding, mnehlnq Iatnp, machine solution.
1

1 chucking, ans ma forth. The ﬁccurtcy and coal at I purtxcuo
.1 In: naiution mutt I180 be :ncludud.

 

.1va : -c»~ -

 

L1 This report clue illustratua tn: ﬁlﬂnaf in which the
1 ttchniquca for calving slauxtnnaaus linear algebrutc equa-
'1 tics: are npnlizc ta thn solution at the beundnrymvaluc
preblcm. A actutlcd deteription a: tan «ntlr¢ campatl-

(inns! proccdurt eharlcterlutie la mtch computer 1: glvun
in an associatcd Appendix.

F. a. Veranh
Novcmher 25, 1952


