and

 

are

 

ive
«five
will

built to re

ots which
ways

81
fe

be gn 230 2 gon

 

it could be more
il classes

puts on & tough

auount of consultation on

Next

.

theses ¢
We are

sould hendle the increased

    

&
This
for about
perscnal kelp.

collepes,

the e¢sleulations

L
1,

lant
courses to
New

1%

England

if our staff
progromaing
problem need

hundred bachelors and masters


+ Tor staff

  

 

from the small colleges =
bright ideas than the d

iL figured it out, the charg
Of course I could just say, "Look, I've run & good many

research projects and I thin I iow how to get results in terms of

research putput and trained men. I've started a few labs and





SG Re See er rr rT a ——————————
NIE TE SY : 4 : A bE etm MIP ey =

   

January 24 1958

Dr. Alan T, Water
National janag Foundation
Dear Alans
A fow weeks I got a letter from telling we a

request wasn't large end I guess I ean it
would have helped to have deen told earlier. But I ah sled, and
somewhat at & lose. And, if 1t's not improper of me, I'¢ like

i sek elsewhere.

We have 8 big computer up here e-
which is devoted RIT to free jelentes
We

8 9! lo 33 Suppor: al 90 1s RIT. But 0 need scientific
staff to make 4 what it ought to do and X d additional cash

to 8 |
aspect, in order to get the request Lhroush soe or SuCthor ob tho
different shaped clots which are built to receive requests. I can
slant 1t four different ways:

Bach summer we give prograsmine
Sourses yA ®e pe de Livy y of the twenty-five gis oP

Now England colleges, I guess we will be
the caleulations for Moy doctors theses A more ing Oo 8

bachelors and masters theses, Next year 4t could be more
if our staff could handle the inoressed amount of consultation on
programming 1¢ would involve. Each person who puts on & tough
problem needs personal help. We are running small classes in coding


rd »

 

 

 

i ————————d SE FEL TES Red BO RE SE SR he
TY ARE Tg a SR dr — WET > ~ he A a —— oy rt Py
a NE Fi - i" 7

£ ee ¥ ro Xr =

xX 8

BEN. or «

“Te. Alan T. Wa
© ¢ :

throughout the year, whenever we have time. Last summer we tried
ig on some | t high school seniors, Next summer we'd like
© try more,

2e LORIE About 150 research are
now current Sn the sathine == 1 Will average nearer 2 spring
if we can take the man-hours to work up a program to have machine
do its own scheduling and and we
input equipment which will enable ue to connect directly from
experiment to machine, without human ¢ Vie
SHUIEIk onbiss we are computing weather, ie Is aa, Smeets
miclear scattering; every problem needed planning
the calculation, We are coding the machine to play chess, are

helping test out machine translation from Uerman to English and will
be engaged in

| teaching the 704 to read blueprints as soon as ws can
buy the equipment to attach to our CRO output. One third of th
present 150 research problems are for people at the other New sngland
universities, Dartmouth, Brown, Boston College, Harvard. We could
do more if we had more staff; we may have to do less unless we can
get your support again next year.

write > nen, Aldinet te Ltpeellie Toads project. 1:°0ud
have to do most of the

work on it; or else the welll do in
the language translation project; or else the simulation of the
economic behavior of a small New England town, or the proposal to
program She machine to do algebra (what it now does, of course, is
arithmetic), But I wouldn't like to do this, for if would freeze
the staff, oF past of it, to that specific project, and I much
refer having avellable to help anyone who comes in with a

t ldea -- then when the idea gets along & way the other people

involved can go out to get money for a proved-out gest and our
staff can turn to helping someone else with & bright dea. That's
the way more than half cur good projects start.

4, Or we can charge every person who comes to use the
machine, for staff consulting time including all the HIP projects,
hereabouts, which need machine time. And this I like least, for
it will be toughest on the poor thesis students and faculty members
from the small colleges -- and these people are likely to have more
bright ideas than the big projects who can afford the charge. I
figured it out, the charge would come to F100 per hour of machine
time, or wore. This would add to the budget of quite & few NOP
projects.

Of course I could just say, "Look, I've rum a good many
research projects and I think I know how to get results in terms of
research gutput and trained men, I've started a few labs and


Dr. Alan 7, Waterman

projects that are stil doing pretty weil ang I Supervised the
doctors, masters op bachelors theses of six present members of the
National pg one of Shen a Jobe brize Mae I need some
Boney gt another good hing, mow sort of request
would never get through any of the plots,

AY present my application is in the slot maried "Mathematics,
Research, Computing facilities.” This 4s evidently a bad slot:
Mathematics doesnt get much education is x

| popular then
research and computing facilities got no grants this year at all,
80 I hear. and t

8 a dl admit we
. mathematics with a comput ing machine. So how can computing machines
£et anything from Buch a slot?

S0 what do I do? I can't walt, this year
to find out whether JOU have money for me ee 101d have fire
some of the staff {or let them go to better paying jobs by June
and charge people in order to keep the rest of tion.

PMs RN


January ogy 1958

Dr, Alan T, Waterman
National Science Foundation
Washington 25, b. C,
Dear Alans

A few weeks ago I got a letter from you telling we a
request for funds I had put in last spr and had understood
was OK'd) was finally disallowed. I'm not too upset, for the
request wasn't large and I guess I can squeak © i
would have "a Tos to jaye been told earlier. But I am puszled, and

Be

somewhat at if 1t's not improper of me, I'd
advice. If it Se let me know ‘soon and 1d ask elsewhere.

We have a big SO here «« the biggest in the country
which is devoted exclusively to free science. IBM is contributing
a lot to its support and so is MIT. But we do need scientific
staff to make it do what it cought to do and I need additional cash
to pay them, I can go to some source (say the NSF) and ask for the
cash; but to do so I have to make my request "in proper form". And
to do that I have to stretch my story to exaggerate one or another
aspect, in order to get the request through one or another of the
different shaped slots which are built to receive requests. 1 can
slant 1t four different ways:

 

1. As an ald in education, Rach summer we glve programming
courses to students and faculty of the twenty-five participating
New England colleges. This spring I guess we will be running off
the calculations for about thirty doctors theses and more than a
hundred bachelors and masters theses. Next year it could be more
if our staff could handle the increased amount of consultation on
programuing it would involve. Each person who puts on a tough
problem needs personal help. We are running small classes in coding


3 r
>
mcd
ps
Ee
w
gy
~~
n

 

> & Ln Fa. _ ~ -
" i; . Be ~~ x p
"iv - “Fe =o - TT
\ STS Img ANT Pree ok ~
- a, -

Dr. Alan T., Waterman

  

throughout the Jose whenever we have time, Last summer we tried
Puilng on some bright high school seniors, Next summer we'd like
© try more.

Ce aid he About 150 research problems are
now Suro a the I€ =e CREE] average nearer som spring
if we can take the man-hours to work up a2 program to have the machine
do its own scheduling and bookkeeping and if we can get the special
input? equipment which will enable us to connect directly from
experiment to machine, without human transcription, We calculated
sputnik orbits, we are computing weather, the strains in concrete
shells, and nuclear scattering; every problem needed help in planning
the calculation, We are coding the machine to play chess, are
helping test out machine translation from German to English and will
be engaged in teaching the 70% to read blueprints as soon as ye can
buy the equipment to attach to our CRO output. One third of the
present 150 research problems are for people at the other New Ergland
universities, Dartmouth, Brown, Boston College, Harvard. We could
do more if we had more staff; we may have to do less unless we can
get your support again next year.

3. AB an ad unch to a sneelfic research project. I could
write up the blueprint reading project itself, for our staff will
have to do most of the work on it; or else the part we'll do in
the language translation project; or else the simulation of the
economic behavior of a small New England town, or the proposal to
program the machine to do algebra (what it now does, of course, is
arithmetic). But I wouldn't like to do this, for it would freeze
the staff, or part of it, to that specific project, and I much
prefer having them avallable to help anyone who comes in with a
bright ldea -- Then when the idea gets along a way the other people
involved can go out to get money for a proved-out project and our
staff can turn to helping someone else with a bright idea. That's
the way more than half our good projects start.

4, Or we can charge every person who comes to use the
machine, for staff consulting time including all the NSF projects,
hereabouts, which need machine time. And this I like least, for
i¢ will be toughest on the poor thesis students and faculty members
from the small colleges -~- and these people are likely to have more
bright ldeas than the big projects who can afford the charge. I
figured it out, the charge would come to F100 per hour of machine
time, or more, This would add to the budget of quite a few NSF
projects.

Of course I could just say, "Look, I've run a good many
research projects and I think I know how to get results in terms of
research output and trained men. I've started a few labs and


Dr. Alan T, Waterman

Projects that are still doing pretty well and I supervised the
doctors, masters or bachelors theses of six present members of the
National Academy, one of them a Nobel prize winner. I need some

money to start another good thing." But I know this sort of request
would never get through any of the slots, |

AT present my application is in the slot marked "Mathematics,
Research, Computing facilities." This is evidently a bad slot:
Mathematics doesn't get much money, education is more popular than
research and computing facilities got no grants this year at all,

30 I hear. And, anyway, no pure mathematician will admit we do
mathematics with a computing machine. 30 how can computing machines
get anything from such a slot?

So what do I do? I can't wait, this year, till November
to find out whether you have money for me = 1011 have to fire
some of The staff (or let them go to better paying jobs) by June
and charge people in order to keep the rest of them,

Should I try one of your other slots? If 80, which one?
Would 1t help any if you or some of your assistants (not just the
mathematicians) came up to see what welre doing or if I come down?
1 really do need advice, Can you help?

Yours,

Philip M, Morse
Director

PMM:s RM


