July 13, 1959

Dr. Arthur Grad
National Science Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthur:

This is in the nature of a progress report concerning
a possible Conference of Directors of university computing
centers, about which I wrote you early last spring.

After I wrote you I wrote to about a dozen directors
of the larger university centers asking for thelr reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
center directors. The answers I received were nearly unanimous.
They were not enthuslastic about another permanent organization
in the computer field. They agreed there are a number of prob-
leme peculiar to university computing centers which ought to be
talked over in common from time to time. They wondered if
special meetings could be called about the tlme of an ACM or
Joint Computer Conference or whether one or two single confer-
ences would not accomplish what was needed. Several of the
letters mentioned specific problems of interest, such as the
problem of financing the computing center whlle still keeping
1t avallable for students and faculty, also the questlions of
academic standards and the status of research on machines.

Last month I attended a conference called by IBM at
Poughkeepsie for the directors of university computing centers
using IBM equipment. About 30 of the 85nown directors of col-
lege computing centers were there, mostly directors of centers
having 650's, We had an evening session concerning this same
problem. There again, the feellng was that 1t was premature to
talk about 2 permanent organization. However, I found a much
greater need for general dlscussion and mutual agreement on
various matters among this group which represented the smaller
and newer computing centers rather than the representatives of
older and larger centers to whom I had written before. This
group felt the need of support for their plans and suggestions
for what are wise and unwise means of financing and help in
determining procedures and academlc standards. Af'ter an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planning group with