He

Facilities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TO4
Eiectronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
conmplement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage unilts
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit contailning
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 5
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetlc tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
ggﬁbine rental, in excess of g50,000 per month, will be dcnated by

' The Type TO% EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
w4ill be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and =
numerical procedures develcoped for this wachilne will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

 

 

 

Personnel: Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Associated with
the Project |

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first Bush
differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his

Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 192% and has been at MIT slnce

1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration

and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physica" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about a hundred Jjournal articles, many of which gilve re-
sults obtained from machine computation. For further bilographic
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his sglary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teachling and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at MIT
since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1040. He
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers”
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis" (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who will head the programming research