=25=

at work on the design and programming required to provide a T090
with 10 to 30 such "substation consoles" of various effective speeds
- and capacities, which can be placed at appropriate places around MIT,
some perhaps in classrooms. The ultimate goal is to make the fastest
and most sophisticated computer as accessible and convenient to 2
person working with it as a dial telephone is. This development will
‘not only open up new research areas, as indicated later, bubt also
will substantially simplify and expedite the process of producing
and debugging new programs, We believe all large machines will
eventually use time-sharing techniques in order to achieve theéir
ultimate capabllities; thus the research now begun at the Center
will be of general benefit toc the development of the computer field.

Machine-guided Education. Computers can, of course, aid in
grading examinations, scheduling classrooms and students and do
other clerical tasks incidental to large classes. But computers
also can be programmed to carry ocut some of the detailed question-
and-answer interchange which occurs in recitation sections. The
Center staff is now working with the Language Department at MIT
to program the TO4 to guide a student through some of the phases
of learning a new language, and are discussing the possibilities
of fraining students in the details of mathematical manipulation by
machine. Here the machine would pose questions for the student to
answer and, on the basis of the answers, would go on to other
questions, as in a recitation section. To avoid intolerable con-
gestion at the main input console (and also waste of computer time),
several students must be able to work with the machine simultaneously,
sharing machine time with regular computation. Therefore further
development of this research will shortly require a flexibility the
704 lacks but the T090 does possess. Potentially, the use of com-
puters will help to solve the problem of giving individuvalized
training in the sclences at all levels, without excessive demands
on the time of able teachers.

Machine=scientist Coogerative Research QSIgergxlo Iin

addition to the examples Jjust mentioned, chere are many other research
programs which can only progress effectively if the machine is

able to carry out calculations on immediate demand and display the
result or feed it back immediately into the experiment, so the
experiment or the scientist can go on to the next step and request

the next computation in turn. On the TOY this would require the
exclusive use of the machine, though only a fraction of the TO4

speed would be used; obviously again, time-sharing technigues are
needed.

These, and many other programs now in progress, such as the
character-recognition studies, the research on economic forecasting
and on operational behavior using large-scale simulation techniques,