MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Department of Physics

MEMORANDUM
To: N. M, Sage
From: Prof. Philip M. Morse Date: 2/20/51
Subject: Proposal for Research and Training Project in Applied

Mathematics, using large-scale Computing Equipment,
particularly Whirlwind.

Whirlwind Project has now reached a stage of development
where its potentialities can be utilized, together with the other
computing equipment at Technology, in a coordinated research and
training program, of the sort anticipated by ONR during its
several years of support of the Project. Both the Institute and
the Navy are vitally interested in the use of large-scale com-
puting devices for the solution of scientific and engineering
problems, and for the promotion of training for students inter-

ested in this field.

Of course a part of the time of Whirlwind will be used
for the solution of a special Air Force problem, and it is ex-
pected that the Air Force will contribute an appreciable part of
the support of the Whirlwind Project, for the development of
equipment and methods for the solution of this problem. Neverthe-
less, approximately half the working time of the machine itself
will be available for the fundamental program, mentioned above and

outlined below.


8.

 

Since g research and training program must be closely
linked Ah pares faculty activities, it is Proposed that iss fl,
supervidion be ohashedy: Py the recently created €enter for
Machine Computation, The interdepartmental Advisory Committee to
this Center Provides a broag representation of various scientific,
engineering ang training activities likely to be involved.

The program which ONR might wish to Support can be divided
into four sections:

l. Research in methods of numerical analysis and the formu-
lation of Scientific problems for machine solution, together with
Support of training of students in these methods.

2+. Support of the scientific ang engineering applications
ETroup previously referred to with Project Whirlwind so as to make
the WW computer useful and available for the above research, and
aid to the research being carried on by MIT faculty ang students,

3. A partial support of the maintenance of the WW computer,

4. Research on and investigation of digital computing machine

components.

It is understood that details of the brogram, which is
necessarily evolutionary in character, will pe worked out from

time to time with the Scientific Officer of the ONR.

It is contemplated that $300,000 per annum for a period
of at least two years will be required to get this program under

way. Detail of the budget is as follows:


gf Senil $100,000
deme 100,000
Sa 50,000
Item 4

50,000


