e

At the condusion of the main meeting, some disuussion was given to
the following two questions:

1. Assuming that I.B.M. did supply a 700 series machine, would
M.I.T. prefer a Type 701 or a 702?

2. If such a machine were awilable, who would carry out the
maintenance program? (It should be mentioned that 1I.B.M.
currently supplies 3 of their customer engineers with each
701 used on a single-shift basis, and 5 engineers if the
machine is used on a second shift,) Needless to say, this
is an expensive item-- approximately $35,000 per year, assuming
$7,000 per annum per man-- and I.B.M. probably would not be
too happy about the financial cost. Furthermore, McDowell
would probably prefer to have M.I.T. engineers maintain the
machine since this in turn would lead to the development of
electronic development dngineers which he so badly needs.

Hurd further went on to say that perhaps we should consider the possibility
of I.B.M.'s sending up machine components, logical circuits, tape units,
drums, cores, etc., which could be assembled by M.I.T. engineers to form a
new computer.

Finally, Hurd asked when the official request from M.I.T. might be
received by T. J. Watson, Chairman of the Board. Floe stated that Killian
had not set a formal date as yet; however, he expects to do so in the near
future. Hurd pointed out that Watson, upon receipt of the request, would
immediately write to Hurd and ask him to go to M.I.T. to evaluate the situa-
tion. We all agreed that Hurd in effect had already done this.

Since Morse had to teach a class from 12 to 1 p.m., he was unable
to join the group for lunch. On the way to Faculty Club, Floe invited
G. S. Brown to join the group. During the luncheon, Brown described the
present and future plans of the Electrical Engineering Department in the
computation area. He felt it was in some respects unwise to accept machines
which I.B.M. was now manufacturing since this equipment was "five years behind
times.” He felt that the current shortcomings in the input-output area could
best be overcome by top-notch M.I.T. personnel assembling special-purpose
equipment on the premises tailored to suit a special application, thus in
effect by-passing the five-year design and production delay currently present
in the I.B.M. equipment. The use of general-purpose computers for certain
applications would be very much like "shooting rabbits with an elephant gun."
He went on to say that Linvill's group was currently developing equipment of
the special-purpose type and he suggested that Hurd come to see some of it.
At this point, Floe indicated the immediate need for equipment of the 700 Series
to fulfill the above-described training and business data handling programs.

After the luncheon, Floe, Hurd, Hill, Gregory, Whitin and Verzuh
retired to Hill's office to discuss the future plans for the School of Industrial
Management. Hill briefly described the two new subjects which SIM is to offer
for the first time during the summer of 1955, and in response to Hurd's query
regarding SIM participation in the suggested business data handling summer
subject, Hill's immediate reaction was that his staff whould probably be too
busy to cooperate since they are to teach two new subjects for the first time
during next summer. However, after some discussion of the cooperative