COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATlON
Minutes or the Third Meeti
Kceaemic Year '52-'53

Persons Present: 0. W. Adams, S. H. caldwell, H. Feshbach,

J. R. Forrester; J;_A; Hrones,.c. 0. Lin,
P. M. Morse, E. Reissner, and W. H. Seifert.

'The subject of the discuSSion et this meeting was the
organization of courses in the machine computativ“ field. Forrester
indicated that there were several types_of cournon_ a this fields
one set primarily of interest to the builders of machines. Such
courses have arisen naturally at the Institute, chiefly in the
Electrical Engineering Department, and there seems to be no problem
concerning their presentation or planning. 0n the other hand; there

-is a growing need for courses for persons who wish to use machines.

Here a certain small amount of material on what is inside the "black

boxes" is needed, but the primary emphasis should be on the operating
characteristics and on the uae of the machine. .

Morse pointed out that the Mathematics Department now had
a course in the mathematics fundamental to machine calculation. There
was some discussion as to the advisability of increaeing the material
on numerical computation in M351 and on perhaps including a small

amount or material in M22. Ho definite agreement was reached on these
matters, however.

After some discussion there seemed to be a general agreement
on the need for a course at the senior level which would involve a
survey of machines and their properties, somewhat along the lines
given on pages 1 and 2 of the appended memorandum from Adams. It was
agreed that the number of Electrical Engineering prenrequisitee for
this course should he kept at a minimum in order to attract students
from as wide a variety of fields as possible. The rxect details of
the material included could not at present he agreed upon, but the
general scope of the material as given in Adams' outline was felt to
be correct. Hrones and Reiosner and Feehbech indicated agreement
that some such course would be a useful sdditiono

There was not time for a general discueeion of the*
advanced professional coursea for professional users of the
or builders of machines. Though e*certein amount of discussio daB