The Application of Digital Computers
fo Social and Operational Problems;

Opportunities and Needs

Environment and New Facilities - M.I.T. has long been in the fore-
front in the development of computing equipment and in developing
ways whereby this equipment can help solve problems in a wide
variety of fields. In the mid-30's Vannevar Bush built here the
first differential analyzer and several faculty members, in various
departments, used 1t to solve problems in engineering, mathematics,
and physics, which could not otherwise be solved. In the past

four years Whirlwind I, one of the first truly high-speed digital
computers to get into operation, has been made available for more
than 1/3 of its time for the solution of general scientific prob-
lems. Problems from many fields, sponsored by members of all the
different departments at the Institute, have been put on the
machine. The programming research staff of Whirlwind has gained
experience in adapting the computer to this variety of problems

and the faculty at the Institute has begun to learn, by actual
doing, the ways in which the computer can help them solve their
problems. -

: Beginning in 1957, the computing facilities at M.I.T.
will be enlarged and reorganized into a Computation Center, to be
devoted entirely to unclassified scientific research and education.
I.B.M. is donating one of its new TOY computers with double the
usual storage units and with appropriate auxiliary equipment, and
will provide for the maintenance of the equipment; the Center will
be housed in the new K. T. Compton Laboratory Building according
to agreement with I.B.M., the equipment will be used ten hours a
day (on the "midnight shift") by I.B.M., will be available up to
seven hours a day to faculty members from other colleges in New
England and the remainder of the time (seven plus hours) will be
available for use by students and staff of M.I.T. for basic re-
search. The programming research staff, at present working with
Whirlwind, will be transferred to the Center, to serve as a nucleus
for planning machine use and for developing new techniques of
machine application.

Nature of the Research - Exploitation to the full of the potenti-
alities of a new piece of equipment can most effectively be accom-
plished by an advance on two fronts: the solving of specific problems
and the development of techniques. In the case of computing machines,
research workers In many fields should learn machine programming
techniques and then proceed to use the machine to help them solve
their own problems. In many cases they can develop the programs

they will need for their work, but in some crucial cases they will
need the help of those persons interested primarily in machine
operation, who are interested more in developing machine techniques
than in solving individual problems.

This division of labor has been necessary in many other
sclentific advances. The recent great progress in nuclear physics


Dm

has come as well from the men interested in experimental techniques,
who spend thelr time trying to get more out of the cyclotrons they
have and bullding new and better cyclotrons, as from those who are
primarily interested in measuring nuclear cross sections and finding
new particles. Even in theoretical physics one needs the analysts,
who improve mathematical techniques, as well as the physicists
proper, who use the techniques to devise new theories. Research
into techniques does not usually have the glamour which research

on specific problems has, but in really new fields of investigation
the basic techniques often must be worked out before the specific
problems can begin to be attacked.

Research into techniques of using digital computers is
particularly important now, for the potentialities of the new
machines are not well understood by others, who would be benefited
by its help. For this reason we are hoping to enlarge our program-
ming research group when the I.B.M., machine gets here, so that, in
addition to helping the problem-solvers program their computations,
the group can spend some time devising really new tricks. Some of
this research should be into the possibilities of devising new modi-
fications of input and output equipment so that, for example, the
results of some experiment can be fed directly into the machine for
detailed analysis, or so that the calculations performed by the
machine can be fed directly to a high-speed typesetter, in each
case eliminating one or more time-consuming and inaccurate human
interventions.

We are requesting NSF and ONR for help in developing
such techniques of particular use in adapting the computer to re-
search In the physical sciences. Some of the work proposed includes:

1. Devising, writing up, and correlating a library of
programs for solving standard problems, to facilitate the use of
the machine by workers in the physical sciences.

¢. Investigating basic programming logic, how it can be
expressed in mathematical terms and how much of it can be carried
out by the machine itself.

5. Development of input equipment and techniques which
can connect the machine directly to the experiment, and output
equipment which can display results in a more concise and under-
standable form.

In this way the Computation Center can cooperate in an
active way with the various groups, at M.I.T. and at other New
England colleges, which are carrying on research in the physical
sciences.


> 3.

Need for Parallel Development in the Soclal Sciences - The work

we have proposed for support by NSF and ONR is to be primarily for
applications in the physical sciences. But the potentialities of
machine computers in the social sciences and in operations research
has equal or greater promise. In economics, in management problems,
in some aspects of psychology and in other fields, the data 1s
large in quantity, often requiring much statistical processing

and special display before its purport can be understood. Many
mathematical techniques, now being developed for these subjects,
require tremendous amounts of computation before they can be
applied to specific problems. Although the appropriate machine
techniques and the special input-output equipment have not been
investigated very completely, it is already clear that they will
often differ considerably from those devised for the physical
sciences and should be investigated separately, in close collabora-
tion with specialists in the social sciences. The grants requested
of NSF and ONR will not support the detalled theoretical study and
special equipment development Which this research will require.

It is, therefore, appropriate and desirable that a re-
quest be made for a separate grant for the development of machine
techniques useful for these fields. We now have, at M.I.T. and
in the neighboring colleges already planning to use the Computation
Center, a variety of specialists in the social sciences, who would
be interested in collaborating with the staff of the Center in
developing such techniques. Funds for the support of specific
studies, in particular fields, can and should be requested and
granted separately. But there is need to support the work of the
Center's staff in devising new techniques, in adapting known tech-
niques to new fields and in helping social scientists effectively
to utilize digital computers in thelr studies.

Possible Directions for Research - It 1s not possible at present

to enumerate in detail the directions this investigation of computer
techniques will take. Several promising leads have already arcused
interest, however:

1. A basic investigation of the machine techniques for
computation in the general field of linear programming--dynamic
programming--input-output analysis, which promises to be of con-
siderable importance in economics and in operations research. The
economics departments at both Harvard and M.I.T. are interested
in applying such techniques to their work. Professor Orcutt at
Harvard and Professor Sclow at M.I.T. are on Advisory Committees
to the Computation Center and will cooperate in this work. The
computations are quite difficult for present equipment but it
appears likely that new programs, planned to utilize the considerably
greater high-speed storage of the new machine, can greatly improve
the speed of solution. It is likely that fundamental improvements
in techniques of solution of these problems will also prove valuable

|
\


~—

4

-

in devising algorithms for the solution of problems of game
theory, also of potential importance in these areas.

2. General studies of the use of machines in the
storage and translation of information have already been started
at M.I.T. A project in machine translation has already been set
up, under the direction of Professor Locke of the Language Depart-
ment. As it develops, it will need the help of machine programming
specialists and will need the use of a machine to test 1ts ldeas.
The translation project is already supported by the Rockefeller
Foundation, but parallel work by the Computation Center on tech-
niques for rapid access to large-quantity data would help this work
as well as others. For example, a study of the use and operation
of the M.I.T. libraries was begun last year. At present, the study
is concerned with the ways the library is being used at present,
but it is expected to move on to the consideration of possible im-
provement of library operation and extension of its use as a re-
search tool in science and engineering. One promising direction
of investigation is in the application of machine techniques to
library inventorying, cataloguing, and record-keeping. Although
special-purpose machines will probably be required in the end, many
jdeas and procedures can be developed and checked out on the general-
purpose machine at the Center with the addition, perhaps, of some
specially built input and output equipment. The staff of the M.1.7T.

Library is interested in this work, and will contribute its knowl-

edge to its progress.

3. A digital computer can be used as an integral part
of many experiments in the social sciences. It can be used to
simulate certain operational situations and thus to provide data
rapidly and under controlled conditions. For example, automobile
traffic distributes itself through the streets of a town according
to some minimization principle, on the average. It should be
possible to simulate this flow on the computer, trying different
assumptions as to the effective "street resistances” and measuring
the resulting flow under various traffic stresses to see how closely
the results check with measurements made in the Boston streets by
the Traffic Study Group already in operation in the Civil Engineering
Department at M.I.T. Tactical situations 1n warfare are already
being studied by “gaming techniques" at Rand and in other military
operations research groups. Similar tactical problems in various
fields of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying
the situation down to some sort of "game," with more or less com-
licated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators, to
see what are the consequences of various strategies. If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to some actual soclal situation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require
a great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that
only by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded
up sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide


“b=

an over-all grasp of its properties. Such "gaming techniques"

are closely related to the experiments of Bavelas on the behavior
of task-oriented groups. The use of a properly programmed computer
would provide such experiments with a powerful and flexlble means
of changing, controlling, and analyzing these experiments in social
psychology. In this field we could work in close collaboration
with the Center for International Studies at M.I.T. and with the
psychology departments in several other colleges.

Proposed Budget - The three general areas of study Just mentioned
are examples of fields of research in computer techniques quite
different from those used in the physical sciences, but ones
equally important and promising. The budget for the group to work
in the physical sciences will run about $100,000 a year. A group
of roughly equal size would be needed for the parallel work In

the social sciences. The added staff would be, in part, social
scientists with an interest in computers and in part mathematicians
and computer specialists with an interest in social science. The
group should work together for several years. An appropriate rave
and duration would be F100,000 a year for five years.

This budget would be administered by the Computation
Center and would be for the support of a group, working at the
Center, investigating wachine fTechnigues of particular value ir
the social sciences, as discussed earlier in this proposal. When
other divisions, such as the Sloan School or the Economics Depart-
ment at Harvard, are able to organize research or educational
programs which utilize these techniques in their fields, wlth SE
separate financial support, they will find a nucleus of collabora-
tors and advisors at the Center, which can see that their program
does, in fact, utilize the facilities of the Center in an effective
manner.

 

PMM: JM

March 7, 1956


