5,0 Rate Structure for the Computation Center

G.O

It is gpparent from the procceding sections 0of this report
that there ars 8 number of expenses -- particularly associated with
the operations staff existing in the Computation Center which are not
gubpidized By eny of the above-mentioned bensfastors. The cost of part
of the operations staff of the Computation Center must be financed by
levying a charge on the services rendered by the Center.

It bas been suggested that two types of charges be mede for
tho use of the tacilitior

1. A 704 mechine usage charge et a fized rate of $180/hour,

2. A progrommer asgsistance charge at &8 fixed rate -- the

exact rate for the programmer assistance charge has to

- by epproved by the comptroller, Hmver, iv HAy range
between $5 and $15 per hour,

It is emlmsized that these charges are designed to defray
the cost of operating the Center and under no condition should there be
any ''profit" emcountered., This means that the actual machine rate structure
will have to be formulated and re-examined on a year-to-year-basis in an
identical manner to thet which has been used in the 0£fice of Statistical
Services during the past ssven years,

Every effort will bs mede to reduce the cost of operating the

Center. Specifically, it is recommended that the method of billing for the

704 computer be similar to that currently employed Zor the Whirlwind machine,

Actual 704 machine usage is to be maintained by the computer to the nearest 201 ot an
- hour gnd billing reports will be prepared on & somi-gutomatic basis every

two weeks. Agein, it is important to emphasize that this matter has been

discussed with Mr, Cusick end at this moment complete approval has not beeld

obtained, It is necessary that & decision of the billing procedure be reached
immediately 1f we are to be up to date with our invoices.

Conclugion

Precoeding sections of this report provide guantitative information
regarding the cost of operating each of the individual sections of the
MIT Compuietion Center., 4An indication of the available sources of inCone
hog been ftabulsted -- however, ths exzact income will, of course, depend
on the actual smcumt of computer time sold.

A set of operating acgounts has been eatablisghed for the wvarious
groups within the Cznter. It has been domonstrated that these accounts
are adeguate for ocur needs. Now that the Csnter is actually in physical
being, we are sble to maintein a very tight control on the approval of
expendi tures under the existing IBM contract., Specifieally, Dr. Blackbura