-2r

 

but its expansion will be hampered by the limitations of access
to the 701+y as will be discussed later°

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded

rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their work

including their class exercises). But this use tends to be self»
limiting for, as soon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec»
iate the possibilities in education and research of computers, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campusa
By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions have machines
of their own» These are smaller machines, of the 650 type, (with
some larger machines projected), so these institutions still come
to the Center to use the 70k for their bigger Jobs; but it does
mean that the use of the Center by the other new.Eng1and colleges
will tend to level off to a reasonable load (about one shift, it
now appears) rather than growing continuously, as the MIT usage is
doingo This result, of course, is in accord with our conviction
that computers should be as prevalent as chemistry laboratories.

In contrast, the MIT use of the 704 for research into new
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy all
requests for machine time for such work, let alone routine proJect
calculations of the "production-run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which has
heretofore been reserved for IBM use. In addition to the research
in solid—state theory, in meteorology and oceanography, which now
depend completely on machine computation and could already use more
time than we can allot them, there are a number of research projects
which are basic to the development of new uses for computers, and,
indeed, to the development of computers themselves, which are already
handicapped by shortage of machine time and limitation of 704
capacitiesa To mention a few:

Pro ramming Develo ment. The Center staff has already
ed 5 E

develop an automa ic opera or routine which is being adopted by
other 70» users. More general assembly programs; such as the
Linking Segment Subprogram Loader; which combines Fortrani SAP ard
other special codes; COMIT, which enables the 704 to be used on
language translation problems; and LISP, which enables the machine
to handle non=numerical logic? such as algebraic and other symbolic
manipulation» are being developed and tested. The work at MIT in
this fieldp since Whirlwind daysg is well known.

Timeusharing Techniques. We already have a typewriter
connected to t g w ich works on a timeusharing basis with our
regular operator routine, so new programs can be debugged at the
same time that regular computations are being carried out on other
problems? for examplee The 70# cannot effectively accommodate more
than one or two such satelite channels” but the Center staff is now