MIT COMPUTATION CENTER
Mossachugette Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

 

 

MEMORANDUM
To: Mr. R, P, Webber, D.S.R, February 10, 1958
From: Director, Computation Center

Subject: Proposal to Extend Contract Noori-g0 withont Increase of Funde,
I mR Rr

Roo puring the past year the persomnel of the Computation Center
have been using two computing facilities; the Whirlwind I installation
in the Barta Building and the new IBM 704 installation in the new
Compton building, The work using Whirlwind has been supported by
contract NSori-60 and that using the 704 has been supported by other
grants, although the nature of the work is closely related. Now that
the Whirlwind equipment has been turned over to the Lincoln Laboratory,
the work of the Center uses the 704 equipment exclusively with consequent
inersage in effectiveness because work is now all done at one place,
using one machine, and duplication of office and machine operaticns is
eliminated. :

2, Work ss doscribed in task orders of NSori-60 continues to be
earried out by the Center, though now the 704 is used to Try out the
programs and suxiliazy equipment rather than W. W.1. For exasple,
Amendment No. 13 (6/28/51) estates im part:

“3 On and after } July 1951, section (a) shall read as follows:

(a) The Contractor shall furnish the necessary perscunel and
facilities for and, in accordance with any instructions
issued by the Technical Officer or his authorized repre-
sentative, shall conduct a coordinated ressarch program
in applied mathematics utilizing facilities in the Center
for Machine Computation, including the WHIRLWIND Computer,
which shall include but not necessarily be limited to the
following:

 

(1) research in methods of numerical analysis and the
formulation of scientific problems for machine solution,
together with tke training of personnel on these methods;

(2) support of the scientific and engineering applications
group previously associated with Project WHIRLWIND so as
to make the WHIRLWIND Computer useful and available for
the above research, including a continuation of the
construction snd improvement of the WHIRLWIND Computer;
and

(3) an investigation of digital computing machine components.”

Work coming under sub-headings (1) and (3) of this amendment is
being continued by the Center,


3.

4, -

Anticipating the turning over of Whirlwind to Lincoln, no
additional moneys were requested for NSori-60 for this fiscal year. Much
of the sctivity under this contract has been related to closing out the
Whirlwind part of the work, though some research started on Whirlwind has
been transferred to the 704 in order to reach satisfactory completion of
the work. Because of the tapering-o0ff of activity under this contract,
it now appears that about $30,000 will still be unexpended by June 30,
1958, It also appears likely that some of the more long-range research
projects of the sort, supported by this contract in the pest, will still
be going on,

For example, cosmic-ray measuréments snd particle accelerator
measurements, carried out in the Laboratory of Nuclear Science, are
coming to use digital computers to analyze the data. We have been
cooperating with them to investigate methods whereby such measurements
can be recorded directly om cards or tape and programmed so that the
analysis can be carried out directly by the machine without further
manual transcription of data. This work will continue, as will the
investigation of various means of displaying the results of the machine
calculations. Other long-range investigations, such as that on
artificial intelligence, also come within the scope of the task orders
for NSori-60,

it is therefore proposed that the Office of Naval Research be
requested to continue Contract NSori-g0 for the year beginning July 1, 1938,
without additional funds, to continue support of long-range research of the
sort described in the Contract’s present task orders until the balance of
the funds is exhausted. These funds would be used chiefly for personnel
salaries and might be allocated as follows:

Senior Mathematician (1 year) : $ 9,000
2 Technicians or Programmers 11,000

(at about $5,500 per year each) 20,000
Overhead, at 45% 9,000
Travel S500
Incidentals (production of reports, 500

office supplies, etc.)

TOTAL $30,000

If the unexpended balance on June 30, 1858, turns out to be less
or more than the ostimated $30,000, this budget could be modified accordingly
to run for a shorter or longer time than an additional year,

Philip M, Morse
Director, Computation Center


