Reprinted from FEDERATION PROCEEDINGS
Vol. 14, No. 1, March, 1955
Printed in U.S.A.

348. Investigation of horizontal components
of heart-vector by means of circumferential
chest leads at mid-ventricular level. C. V.
NeLsoN AND Hans H. Hecur. Dept. of Medi-
cine, Univ. of Utah College of Medicine, Salt
Lake City.

By means of comparative studies between three-
dimensional and two dimensional (J. Physiol.
116: 15P, 1952) electrolytic tank models of the
human thorax, it has been shown that if the verti-
cal angle « lies within the range 430°, the distri-
bution of potential around the boundary of the
flat (‘two dimensional’) tank is very similar to the
distribution of potential around the deep (‘three
dimensional’) tank at the level of the dipole
center. Measurements in two-dimensional models
can, therefore, provide information about the
horizontal component of the heart-vector. In
addition to model experiments, circumferential
chest leads were taken at mid-ventricular level
of several normal and abnormal subjects using a
plastic belt holding 23 electrodes. The vertical
angle a was computed from bipolar limb leads.
For those cases in which « lay in the range +30°
with the horizontal plane, the potential distribu-
tion around the chest was plotted for various
instants of time. It was found that for the human
subjects the horizontal component corresponded
to a single dipole at some times; at other times,
two or more effective dipoles were evident. By
comparing these measurements with results on the
model, it was possible to determine the horizontal
angle. The method provides a check on calcula-
tions of this vector quantity derived from con-
ventional surface electrocardiograms. (Supported
by the Life Insurance Research Fund and the
American Heart Assn.)


Reprinted from THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY
Vol. 183, No. 3, December 1055
Printed in U.S.A.

Resultant electrical dipole moment of frog heart. C. V.
NErsoNn ano H. H. HecHr. Dept. of Medicine,
Univ. of Utah College of Medicine, Salt Lake City.
Since the double-layer electrolytic tank has no bound-

ary error, equations applying to infinite two-dimen-
sional media can be used. Perfused frog hearts were
placed in the center of this tank. If the resultant dipole
of the heart, M, makes an angle 8’ with the + X axis,
the potential V, at a distance 7; along this axis is given
by

M cos ¢'

2kwdr, @

 

where 2 = conductivity, d = depth of liquid.
The potential V at a distance rz along the positive ¥
axis is

M cos (90° — 6)  M sin ¢

 

Vy = =
: rr zwkdrs (2)
Dividing 2 by 1 gives
Va ro
tan 0’ = -
an Vir, (3)

The value of 8’ is substituted in r or 2 to find M. M and
0’ were found as a function of time during the ventricu-
lar complex for bullfrog and leopard frog hearts. With
the anatomical heart axis along the O° line, 6’ varied
between the limits —40° to + 70°. The order of magni-
tude of M max in the ‘frontal’ plane was 8o u A-cm for
the bullfrog and 6 u A-cm for the leopard frog. As pre-
viously reported, M max = 1000 u A-cm for the human
heart (horizontal plane). (Supported by U. S. Public
Health Service Research Grant.)


