L eeme—t— ' Page 1 of B
& DCL-155

Computation Center e
Magsachusetts Inatitute of Techmology
Cambridge 39; Massachusetts

T0: Profe P. il Morse

FROM: S&EC Group

SUBJECT: M.I.T. 704 Post-iortem Routine
AUTHOR: A. Siegel

DATE: November 26, 1956

The postemortem routine described in this report is being prepared for
uss on the .I.T. 704 and for SIARE distributions It is a selective memory print-
out or punch~out routine for use as an aid in trouble-shooting. The registers of
core memory to be recorded end the form in which the output is to be produced are
specified using either symbolic request cards or the computer console. The output
igs in the notation of the SHARE Assembly Program (SAP), including the symbols of
the ariginal program if they are requested«* The routine is designed for vers
gatility end consist@ncy with the SAP notation, in order that the coder may get

exactly the inforiuabivic u® wants in exactly the form he wants it.

As described in this report, the symbolic request cards are read and
translated by the postemortem routine before their exaecution. This translation
can more efficiently be done by the compiler, and any future Me.I.T. compiler will
probably do this. It is possible to madify SAP to accept these cards, and there-
by combine the assembly and post-mortem routines into an efficient service-yroutine
package. However, the post-mortem routine mey be used as described here, whether
or not such changes are aade in SAP.

Sggbolic Bostamortmm;Reguests - the PR Card

The SIARE card format (comprising symbol field, operation fisld and
variable field) is reteined in the request cards. Card requests are identified
by the letters PilR (Post~Mortem Request) in the operation field. The varieble
field in the R card contains four expressions separated by conmis and Lermine
ated by & blank column.

The first two expressions give the initiel und final addresses of tThe
block in core memory to be printed or punched. These two expressions are of the
gume form &s expressions in SAP, and may include symbolse. The ¥aird expression
sndicates the form in which the words are 1o be produced, and consists ol one of
the following ebbreviati.ns:

FLO Floating-point numbers

FIX Fixed-point numbers, scaled with binary
exponent x and decimal exponent y (following
SAP notetion). Jhe scaling information may
be omitted to obtain BU k0.

INT Fixed-point integors (decinal)
SR 4% Tnaetructions with symbolic addresscs
ABS Instruction with absolute addresses

B T A A A S AR ST ST THT AR A AL LRI T D e T A ST L S R SRR TS LIRS P ATT EITY O T A S 1T S AN T B s S W T i ST . T e

nm

=The treatment of the symbol table is described latere.