T T
“ e

(223

=

it

(L
.

>

l".’

Ty

>
)
Ty

-
c}.(

Pra,

A
)

.
0

i

 

13522

e

 

Reprint from JoOUrNAL or COLLOID SCIENCE, Vol, 6, No. 1, February, 1951
Printea in U. S. A. ’ %

AN INTERIONIC ATTRACTION THEORY APPLIED TO THE
DIFFUSE LAYER AROUND COLLOID PARTICLES. I

Arthur L. Loeb

M assachusells Institute of Technology, Cambridge, M assachuselts
Received August 23, 1950

ABSTRACT

Interionic forces in dilute electrolytic solutions have been successfully treated by

Debye and Hiickel (1), but their theory is not directly applicable to regions of solutions

near plane surfaces, especially when these surfaces are highly charged, as in the case of
lyophobic colloid particles treated by Langmuir (2). It is shown that even when the total
potential is high, that part dependent on an ion being at any given location still obeys
approximately a linear differential equation. The concentration distribution and forces
between the particles are derived, and compared with the results that Langmuir obtained
neglecting interionic forces. In the Appendiz the extended interionic attraction theory

is applied to uncharged or slightly charged surfaces in equilibrium with electrolytic
solution.

INTRODUCTION

According to the Debye-Hiickel theory, the activity coefficient of the
ions in a dilute solution is depressed below its ideal value by a charac-
teristic stabilizing mechanism involving the formations of ionic atmos-
pheres. In the interior of such a solution the normal (i.e., time average)
potential is zero everywhere, but when there is an ion at a given point,
its presence induces a local space charge of opposite sign nearby, with
which an ion interacts, so that its potential energy is lower than the value
corresponding to the normal potential.

In the neighborhood of a fixed charge, as on the surface of a colloid
particle, the normal potential no longer vanishes. It is produced by the
wall charge and the normal diffuse countercharge, and is responsible for
the main term in the potential energy of an ion in this region. The
stabilizing mechanism must operate to lower this energy, indeed more
strongly than in the interior of the solution because the mean ion concen-
tration is greater, and the atmosphere that is formed is more compact.

| This article outlines the research done in partial fulfillment of the requirements for
the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at Harvard University. The author wishes to express
his appreciation for the inspiration and, guidance received from Dr. A. Sprague Coo]xdge?.
Copies of the complete thesis are filed at Harvard University, the Massa.chusetts Ipstl-
tute of Technology, Columbia University, the University of Pennsyl\./ama, the Ufuver-
sity of Amsterdam, and the University of Utrecht (the Netherlands), in each case in the
Physical Chemistry Library. -