1026 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

  
   

SOUNDARY=DISTRIBUTION
DIPOLES AT O® AND 22°

VOLTS +ZR° +8

   

TR I Ve

CM. ALONG BOUNDARY

LEFT

135° 90°
BOUNDARY-DISTRIBUTION

€
DIPOLES AT 90° AND 180° = +2VOLTS/CM.

 

137¢

BOUNDARY=DISTRIBUTION

 

C RIGHT LEFY
FIGURE 8. Boundary-potential distributions with separate dnpgle.s locat%d = rllg(};g.-\;nd

tricular and left-ventricular areas. In a the B angles are 0° and 22°; in b, 90 ar}?b i

in ¢, 137° and —130°. -The vector diagrams show the vector that would result l'thothose =t

ponent vectors were located at the same point. A comparison of these curyelel

FIGURE 6 shows the degree of departure from the corresponding resultant dipole.

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1027
Distributed Source in T horax Section

It was previously shown? that the field of two half shells in an infinite me-
dium was equivalent to a dipole field at remote points. When the distributed
source was in the thorax section in the heart area, the distance between its
front surface and the nearest point on the boundary was only 3 cm. Even
under these conditions, however, it was found that the boundary-potential
distribution was very similar to that of the equivalent dipole.

Application of Method of Images to Study of Effects of Regions
of High or Low Resistivity*

When the potential of a source in a volume conductor enclosed by an in-
sulating boundary is considered,? the ratio of resistivities of the media con-
cerned is infinite. The method of images can also be used when the resistivity
ratio is finite. Using the method of calculation of Hague, the image system
for a current source in the vicinity of a circular disk of finite resistivity has been
derived. It has been found that four image systems are required, depending
on whether the current source and sink are inside or outside the disk, and
whether potentials are required inside or outside the disk.

(1) Source and sink inside disk: polentials inside disk. 1If in the thorax sec-
tion the heart area is considered circular in shape, then this case would be
analogous to the case of potentials inside the heart due to the heart electro-
motive force (E.M.F.) taken as a dipole, or point source and sink. For this
and the other three cases, the following symbols are used:

o

; = potential at a point P inside the disk.

potential at a point P outside the disk.

= resistivity of disk.

resistivity of medium surrounding disk.
/

I

I

£ = resistivity ratio.
p

= current.

depth of electrolyte (assumed constant).
= distance from sink to center of disk.

= distance from source to center of disk.
distance from P to sink.

= distance from P to source.

distance from P to image of sink.

= distance from P to image of source.

B SR QU Y ® O <
Il Il

S
I

2L
2wd

The sink and source are located at distances ¢ and b from the center of the

*The term “image” as used here should not be confused with the “image surface” of
Burger and van Milaan®*-¢ or with “mirror-image” electrocardiograms on the chest wall.