[From the Proceedings of the Physiological Society, 14—15 December 1951.]
Journal Physiology, Vol. 116.

Electric ﬁeld measurements in a two-dimensional conductivity-
tank model of the human heart and thorax. By C. V. NELSON*.
Department of Electrical Engineering, I mperial College of Science, London;
and Department of Physiology, M iddlesez Hospital Medical School, London

It is always diﬂicult to calculate a potential ﬁeld distribution, even in relatively
simple physical systems, unless considerable approximations are made. This
is particularly true if the system involves electrical inhomogeneities or if the
boundary of the system is not a simple geometrical shape. It is usually possible,
however, to set up a model of the system and make rapid measurements of the
potential ﬁeld.

 

Fig. 1. Diagram of two-dimensional conductivity tunk. The outline of the chest wall, lungs, heart,
vertebra and sternum can be seen. The two electrodes at the centre of the cl'oss»section of the
heart are the source electrodes. The search electrode is carried on a bridge, to the right, and
can be moved to any position in the tank. The reference electrode is seen immediately behind
the vertebra. The cross-section is taken at the mid-ventricular level.

An electrolytic tank for conductivity measurements, as described by
Boothroyd, Cherry &. Maker (1949), was modiﬁed (Fig. 1) so as to have an
insulating boundary in the shape of the outline of a cross-section of the human
thorax (adapted from cross-section diagram 23 of Morton, Truex & Kellner
(1941)).

‘ Research Fellow of the American Heart Association.
[p.r.o.


2

In order to take account of the different electrical conductivities of the bones,
lungs, heart and other tissues of the thorax, the depth of the thin layer of copper
sulphate solution in the conductivity tank was adjusted by the insertion of
cut-out shapes to represent the cross-section appearance of these tissues. The
resulting conductivity of the different regions so formed was then proportional
to the depth of the electrolyte.

The vertebra and sternum were represented by Perspex material of thick-
ness greater than the depth of the electrolyte, thus giving zero conductivity.
The lung sections were in glass and covered by the electrolyte so as to give a
conductivity about 25% of that in other parts of the cross-section. It is
possible to have an increased conductivity for the heart by using a greater
electrolyte depth in that area, and this was done in some experiments.

A pair of probe electrodes was placed in the tank in the heart area and a
potential difference applied, so that a current ﬁeld was set up in the electrolyte.
These electrodes constitute a dipole source which could be adjusted in strength,
position and orientation. In further experiments two such dipoles have been
used, and in others a ‘ distributed source’ was used consisting of pairs of metal
conductors around the boundary of the cross-section of the heart.

Potentials were measured with respect to a remote point by means of a
search probe which could be moved over the tank area. Polarization errors
were substantially eliminated by the use of (i) a 500 cyc./sec. source, (ii)
platinized-platinum search and reference probes, and (iii) a very high input
impedance to the valve voltmeter used for potential measurements. The
potential ﬁeld was also measured in the ‘double—layer’ tank, which is the form
originally described by Boothroyd et al. (1949). This is equivalent to making
the measurements in an inﬁnite, i.e. unbounded, medium. The comparison of
these results with those obtained in the modiﬁed tank shows the effect of the
boundary on the potential distribution.

REFERENCES

Boothroyd, A. R., Cherry, E. C. & Maker, R. (1949). J. 11mm elect. Enqrs, 96, pt. 1, 163.
Morton, D, J., Truex, R. C. it Kcllner, C. E. (1941). Human Cross-section Anatomy, section 23.
Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins.


