amending officer - 2 - March 25- 1955
Office of Naval Research
Boston. Massachusetts

in View of «merges being made for the use of other large
oomuuters it is considered the rates set forth in 2 (a) and
(b) above are comletely equitable for use until such time
so the necessary cost data becomes available for study and
redeteminntion of the rates is in order.

is. All oroblm. (5. 7. 8 and 9 below). going on the Whirlwind
Comter. (acept those of the Lincoln Laboratory). will be
engraved by M.I.'I'.'s comittee on Machine Methods of computation.

5. Projects connected with milk-ONE contracts will not he
charged for use of comonter time.

6. m3 charges will be made to the Lincoln Laboratory for its
use of the Whirlwind Comter.

7. As soon as possible but in no event later than July 1. 1955
all other sponsored M.I.'l‘. research programs will pay for use
or the Whirlwind Computer in accordance with the rate schedule
as set forth in 2 (a) and (b) above. It is recognised tint all
such monsored research projects no: require some months to
obtain appropriations in their budgets for computer time while
it is definitely in the best interests of all concerned to
carry out their yrogrnms on Whirlwind.

8. Projects undertaken for outside sponsors. including ORR
prime contractors. will pay the established rates for use of
the computer. It is the intention of the Committee on Machine
Computation that such projects he keut at a minimum.

9. It is recognized that the computer will continue to be used
for research in coding techniouee. thesis work. class exercises,
demonstrations and educational projects in accordance with the
philosonlv so fundamental to the continuance of such a. contract
as Mari-06001. Costs for such work will be born directly under
this contract.

10. All expenses incurred in connection with Whirlwind operations
under 5. 7 and 6 above will be charged against contract NSori-Oéool
end all monies collected for the use of the computer will be credited
book to this contract,

11. v.1.1‘. will submit monthly fiscal renorts to 01m indicating
the amber of hours of Whirlwind time which have been charged to
oroJeots and the credits which have seemed to Contract Mort-06001.

12. Regular nroject renorts under Contract Mari-06001 will continue
to nrovide information regarding 2111 work carried out on the Whirlwind
Computer so that OER will be completely informed concerning the
project activities: