lat the worthwhile parts then active should each be supported.

spars progects. by funds tron various sauces. new that the
,eibilities o

ct these research proJects may be supported by industry, com my:
still need support from ORR, but the support need not all come from
the Mathematics Division of am; the other divisions, interested
in the research. should contribute their share. Consequently, no
additional funds will be requested for DIG 6915 at this time. Next
sumsr the situation will be res-assessed and a final decision as to
its future will then be made.

Progect 6 - The situation with respect to Die 6315,
the operat on 0 Nb wind I itself, is quite otherwise. This

equipment is the only high—speed digital computer available at
present for general research at the Institute. Unless e

:, funds are available to pay for maintenance, operation; promins
a and scheduling. no research requiring machine computation of this
sort will be possible at the Institute and the goal set by the
other part, proJect 6915. would be nullified. At present W1 is
supported in part by Lincoln laboratory and in part by ORR. The
time not used by Lincoln, which is used by workers in project 6315
and in!» general research and educational activities of the In-
‘ stitute, is equivalent to about 40 hours a week, tull meshitt
operation or the machine. The costs not born by Lincoln hays been
trimmed to about $160,000 per year. "His problen is how to‘ provide
this amount during June l955-June 1956 and how to, provide the -
largertanount to keep going later if Lincoln should withdraw its
supper . -

 

 

. . One possibility would be to charge each user proportionally .
to his use or the machine, irrespective of the nature or his work. '
This, or course, would have thwgesult or discouraging most thesis
research and general faculty use-or the machine, thus nullifyius
the results of the efforts of project 6915, which was set up. in
part, to stimulate this interest. Another possibility would be
to charge those users who could afford it (the sponsored prodects)

‘ enough to pay for the full $1 .000 needed for the next fiscal

_ '- ,. ..year and to allow thesis and general educational research free time.

Costs to other ORR Pro eats o-Bnt this year somewhat more
than one he}? ot't‘he sponsored 13E, non-Lincoln) work done on WW1