Fay Foto Service, Inc.

View of control panel of the 704 computer. Colored buttons
on the panel provide general operating controls, such as stop
or start, read card, etc. Detailed instructions of the machine
program are read from punched cards into the memory unit
and from thence exercise high-speed control of the details of
each computation. Buttons on the lower right-hand part of
the panel may be programmed to provide other external con-
trols as needed. Neon lights on the central part of the panel
indicate the operation of various parts of the circuitry.

generates quantities of heat, which must be carried
away or the machine would overheat in a few min-
utes. In most installations the cooling is achieved by
flooding the area with cool air, then sucking this air
into each unit as it comes by, and blowing it over the
hot elements by means of a fan — a rather unimagina-
tive method and a noisy one, for the unit fans cause
95 per cent of the noise! In the installation at the
[nstitute the cooled air, at a slight excess pressure,
is ducted directly to each machine so that no unit
fans are needed, and the unit elements run actually
cooler than in the usual installation. Fans have been
eliminated from all major units except the magnetic
drum, which now generates more noise than all the
rest. As soon as arrangements can be made to remove
the tans from this unit, the area will be as quiet as
some of the libraries or other intellectual work areas
at the Institute.

[f the visitor finds his way down the stairs to the
preparation room below, he will see more activity.
Machine users are preparing cards by operating the
typewriter keyboards of the card-punch machines,
are duplicating cards from some standard-routine
deck to insert in their own pile, or are running their
cards through a sorter. In these various ways they
cet together (in the form of a set of holes punched in
a deck of cards) the instructions, definitions, and data
which tell the machine how to do their problem. If
the dozen to a hundred holes are punched right on

9

 

cach card and if the 20 to 500 cards are in the rf'ght
order, then the machine will translate the instructun’ns
and data into meaningful electronic activity, and wn.ll
solve the posed problem in a hurry. The card deck is
the user’s means of telling the machine what he wants
in a language the machine can understand.

But there is a long history of activity beforf: th.c
cards are punched and fed to the mach.me, which is
not as apparent to the casual visitor as 1s the'order]y
bustle in the machine room. Some of it is being car-
ried out all over the Institute as M.LT. Faculty
members translate their mathematical equations into
instructions to punch onto cards, and as students
struggle to state their thesis probl.ems in a langt.la.ge
appropriate for machine calculation. Some activity
is being carried out, by visitors from other New Eng-
land colleges, in the offices across the hall from the
machine room, for the equipment at the Center has
been donated by the International Business Machines
Corporation for the use of all the colleges in New
England.

At present, some two dozen New England colleges
and universities are actively participating in a large-
scale program aimed at introducing the use of elec-
tronic computers into the college curriculum. Each
August a special two-weeks’ course in coding is given
by the Center staff to interested students and faculty
members from all these schools. Those who have
taken the course go back to their institutions and
teach others how to use the equipment. At present,
of the 150-odd problems being run by the machine,
about 40 are from New England colleges other than
M.L.T. The relative number is increasing, despite the
greater difficulty out-of-towners experience in using
the facilities, and it is hoped that eventually half the
problems on the machine at any time will be from
the other institutions.

Already the machine is busy helping to solve prob-
lems in a wide variety of fields of science, including
anthropology, astronomy, chemistry, economics, en-
gineering, geology, industrial management, mathe-
matics, metallurgy, meteorology, modern languages,
operations research, physics, and psychology. For ex-
ample, as was reported in the newspapers, as soon as
accurate visual sightings were reported, the orbits
of the Russian satellites were computed by the ma-
chine; the results checked closely with those com-
puted in Washington from radar sightings. In another
case, the computer has been used to help establish
the origin of peculiar glasslike fragments called tek-
tites, which are found in various parts of the world,
but do not appear to be of terrestrial origin. It has
been suggested that tektites may be extraterrestrial
particles that have been splashed off the moon by
supermeteoric collisions, and peppered the earth mil-
lennia ago. The possible orbits of such particles have
been calculated by the computer; the results seem
to check with the distribution of tektites on the
earth, though this does not prove their lunar origin.
The Sputnik and the tektite problems have origi-
nat?d with the Harvard Observatory and the Smith-
sonian Institution,

To mention a few more examples, the M.I.T. De-
partment of Meteorology has several large problems
running concerned with weather prediction; the 704