=2=

provided soon, several of the projects mentioned above will have
to terminate or else will have to use other machines, which would
inevitably mean the dissipation of the Center's usefulness in
coordinating this sort of research.

It is not intended that the Center should have a monopoly
of all computing around MIT; this would be unrealistic and, as
indicated above, impossible. But it must play an active role in
supporting and instigating research into new applications if it
is8 ¢o continue to be the focus of new ideas and of exciting activity
which will attract, train and inspire the new generation of
machine experts.

Proposal: It is proposed that some time during the summer
or fall of 1000 a 7090 be substituted for the present TO04. Details
of the specific equipment to be included are already under dis-
cussion with IBM staff. Several data synchronizer channels should
be included, and a disk memory, in addition to a variety of input-
output equipment. In the meantime the Center staff will be preparing
pilot models of the substation, time-sharing consoles, and the
related program modifications so that the time-sharing aspects of
the research can start as soon as possible after the 7090 is
installed. The Center staff will of course continue its close
cooperation with the various IBM research groups, 80 the design
implications of the time-sharing developments will be available to
these groups as the work progresses, and so that minor changes in
the 7090, to improve substation effectiveness, can be made with
expedition and mutual understanding, either before or after the T090
is delivered.

The total load on the 7090, the work of the cooperating
institutions, the class and thesis use and the machine-=use research
discussed above, would initially use more than one shift of machine
time, but probably would not use more than two shifts for tThe first
year. Consequently it would be possible for IBM, during the firste
year of operation, to utilize the third shift in a manner similar
to what was done on the 704 during its first year of operation.

It is llkely that this IBM usage would taper off, as it did with
the 704, so that as the program outlined above expands, it could
eventually use all three shifts (plus Saturdays):; the New England
colleges taking up to one shift, the MIT classroom and thesis work
taking up to another shift, and the new-applications research takih g
up the rest of the tiwe. MIT would supply the operating and
programming staff, in addition to the management and coordination
with other colleges; IBM would supply maintenance, amortization of
building space, support of the research assistantship program and
reimbursement of MIT's expenses in the cooperative program, as it
does at present with the TO4.