=)
GOL No. Le53
Ser k216

27 July 1953

70 ALL ONR CONTRACTORS:

This letter concerns a change in the ONR policy on payment of costs for publi-
cation in scientific and technical jownals of unclassified reports under OR
research projects. ONR, Boston CCL No. 6-52, Serial 2301, of 30 April 1952

is canceled and superseded by this letter.

ONR will now approve, as items of allowable costs under its research and
development contracts, expenditures for page costs made by ONR contractors to
regularly established scientific and technical journals for publication of
unclassified reports prepared under the ONR contract in question, in an amount
not exceeding the nommal page charge which the journal in question assesses
its contributors, or one-half the page cost, whichever is less. The Boston
Branch Office may approve such expenditures not exceeding five hundred dellars
($500.00) per published report. Before allowing payment in excess of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per published report, the approval of the cognizant
Scientific Officer, ONR, Washington, shall be obtained.

The above policy is based upon the understanding that, as thus established, the
reimbursable page costs plus cost of necessary extra reprints will not exceed
the cost of comparable reproduction of reports by conventional methods approprie-
ate to the report in question.

If a situation arises where it is considered desirable to exceed the foregoing
limitations, all relevant facts shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer
and the Scientific Officer via ONR, Boston, far a determination as to the
desirability and justification for publication in the form suggested. In neo
case will these limitations be exceeded without prior approval of the Contracte
ing Officer and the Scientific Officer.

In cases in which reports are accepted for publication by journals at a charge
of less than 50 per cent of the page costs or the normal page charge, ONR will
allow only such amount as is actually paid by the contractor to the particular
journal involved,


fg eT

Ser h216
In considering requests for approval of publication charges, ONR, Boston, wi co

be guided by the importance to ONR of the proposed method of publication. Is
4s possible that a situation may arise where a proposed form of publication Se
may be of value to the contractor or the investigator, but not to OR. Since
ONR policy contemplates the exercise of discretion by the Branch Office dm =

approving payment of publication costs, it 1s requested that each such proposed

“expenditure of contract funds be submitted to your contract iministr hor An

py = Sh .
ee. . Poe
a Wm
-- oy = Pom” Yas a ai a
air. : AT RS ho

Head, Contract Administration
Department

By direction of the Director 2

 

= 0 -

be a - - & N A. Mp yz go


