July 13, 1959

Dr. Arthur Grad |
National Selence Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthurs

This is in the nature of a progress report concerning
a possible Conference of Directors of unlversity computing
centers, about which I wrote you early last spring.

After I wrote you I wrote ¢o about a dozen directors
of the larger university centers asking for thelr reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
center directors. The answers I received were nearly unanimous.
They were not enthusiastic about another permanent organlzation
in the computer filecld. They agreed there are a nunber of probe
lems pecullar to university computing centers which ought to be
talked over in common from time €o time. They wondered if
special meectings could be called about the time of an ACM or
Joint Computer Conference or whether one or two single confer-
ences would not acccomplich what wos necded. Several of the
letters mentloned specific problems of interest, such as the
problem of flnanclng the computing eenter while still keepling
it avallable for students and faculty, also the questions of
academic standards and the status of research on machines.

Last month I attended a conference gcalled by IBM at
Poughltecepsle for the dlrectors of university computing ccenters
using IBM equipment. About 30 of the 85 kown directors of col-
lege computing centors were there, mostly directors of centers
having 650's. We hod an evening seesion concerning this same
problem., There again, the feeling was that it was premature to
tallk about a permanent organization. However, I found a much
greater need for general discussion and mitual agreement on
varicus matters among this group which represcnted the smaller
and newer computing centers rather than the representatives of
older and larger ccnters to whom I had written befexc. This
group felt the need of support¢ for thelr plang and suggestions
for wnat are wise and unwise means of firancing and help in
determining procedures and academic standordg. After an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planning group with