FROM THE POINT OF VIEW
OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS

It is more difficult to appraise the research training
institute from the point of view of the Board of Gover-
nors. Certainly, it is important to the Board that many
of the young economists present at the institute will be-
come contributing scholars in the field of monetary
theory and policy and will have firsthand information
and familiarity with its resources and procedures.

If some similar type of research training institute were
to be repeated, there are a number of lessons to be
learned from last summer’s experience. First, it seems
to me that it would be better to accept somewhat fewer
persons so as to have a more homogeneous group of out-
standing intellectual promise. Second, an effort should
be made to bring the participants and members of the
Board’s staff closer together. If there were fewer par-
ticipants, desks might be provided for each of them in
the various offices where they would be seeking ma-
terial. At the same time the Board’s staff should be en-
couraged to attend the seminars and participate in the
discussion. (Last summer because of lack of space and
because we were not sure how the participants would
react, we discouraged attendance by staff members.)
Possibly, each of the participants might be assigned a
“major professor” from the staff, who could supervise
the preparation of the research paper, and help to give
the participant access to data in other agencies as well
as in the offices of the Board.

 

While the group project on “reserve needs” was use-
ful as a means of forcing the participants to learn more
about the institutional complications of effecting mone-.
tary policies, I would shorten the time devoted to this
project and lengthen the time spent on individual re-
search projects under the direction of staff members.

The participants did not have enough time toward
the end of the six-week period to present their papers
and receive the criticism of their fellow participants.
To correct this, I would encourage the participants to
prepare their papers early and to circulate them for
criticism. Possibly, each of the staff members could list
a number of projects that he would like participants to
undertake, and this would tend to prevent delay in
choosing a research project.

Finally, to encourage discussion in the seminars, each
of the staff members should be encouraged to prepare
an abstract of his presentation for distribution in ad-
vance of the seminar. Thus more time could be spent in
discussion of the issues raised by the presentation.

While in retrospect we can see ways to improve the
summer research training institute on monetary and
credit policy, there is no doubt that the students thought
there was much to be gained, as one student said, in
“bringing students of Mohammedanism to Mecca.” The
students not only had opportunity to work with data
not available elsewhere, but also to work with prac-
ticing economists who were deeply involved in apprais-
ing developments in the economy and recommending
appropriate action.

RESEARCH ON PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT IN YOUTH:
PROGRAM OF A NEW COUNCIL COMMITTEE

IN RESPONSE to the lively interest of a small but growing
number of social scientists in problems of higher edu-
cation, the Social Science Research Council has ap-
pointed a new Committee on Personality Development
in Youth to encourage and aid research on social and
cultural influences on personality in the late adolescent
years, with particular reference to the impact that college
has on students. The members of the committee are
Ralph W. Tyler, Director, Center for Advanced Study
in the Behavioral Sciences (chairman); Dana L. Farns-
worth, Director, University Health Services, Harvard
University; T. R. McConnell, Professor of Education
and Director of Research Project in Higher Education,
University of California, Berkeley; Theodore M. New-
comb, Professor of Psychology and Sociology, Univer-

sity of Michigan; C. Robert Pace, Chairman, Depart-
ment of Psychology, Syracuse University; Nevitt Sanford,
Professor of Psychology, University of California,
Berkeley, and Coordinator, Mary Conover Mellon
Foundation, Vassar College; and Robin M. Williams,
Jr., Professor of Sociology, Cornell University. A grant
of $150,000 for support of the committee’s program
during the next three years was made to the Council
by the Ford Foundation in December 1957.

In June 1956 an exploratory conference was held
under the auspices of the Council for discussion of the
current status and needs of social science research on
problems of higher education. Many aspects of the broad
area were touched upon and two foci of special interest
emerged. One concerned student centered research; the