PERSONNEL RESEARCH LABORATORY

AIR FORCE PERSONNEL AND TRAINING RESEARCH CENTER

AIR RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT COMMAND
Poi! Om:- Box I557

Lazklond A" Force Ban Sen Amonlo, Tun:

7 _ my 1956

Dr. Philip M. Morse

Professor of Physics

Phasachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Ihssachuaetts

Dear Dr. Morse:

For some time this Center has been interested in the
application of certain mathematical and statistical models,
such as game theory, to the problems of personnel utiliza—
tion in the military service. We are concerned with a
variety of problems which may be attacked with the use of
certain of these models.

1 An example of the sort of problem which we have in
mind is one of minimizing the cost of training Air Force
technicians. There are available psychological tests

which give a good indication of a man's probable success in
technical school training. r«l'hese tests give differential
predictions for different kinds of training with concomitant
different probabilities of success. With these probabilities
and with good estimates of the cost to train men in each of
the several specialties, it is hoped that a minimizing pro-
cedure might be used to indicate the most economical way of
assigning individuals to technical training, while at the
same time taking a minimum risk of not meeting the Air Force
requirements.

w are also interested in the application of general
purpose computers to the problems of personnel utilization,
particularly the solutions of mathematical models which might
be appropriate for personnel classification and training, es-
pecially methods of managing very large masses of data, which
considered separately have little predictive value, but which
considered as a whole, permit good estimates of future per-

formance .


Dr. Philip M. Morse 2

 

I would appreciate it very much if you would write me in-
dicating whether or not you would be interested in being con-
sidered as a prospective bidder on a contract with our organiza-
tion to study either or both of the problems described above,
attempting, if possible, to develop practical solutions which
would be some improvement over methods now employed. It you
are interested, it would be appreciated if you would tell me

briefly about the personnel and facilities available in your
organization.

In addition, I would be happy to review any proposals for
contract research in related areas in which your staff is par-
ticularly interested and able.

This letter should not be regarded as a contract pro-
posal; it is intended as an inquiry about interest in and
capability for handling certain research problems for this
organization.

Sincerely,

(M. {was

JMszdh ' ohn M. Ieiman
ief, Statistical Methodology
and Analysis Branch


