o s

Name z2nd Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
‘ Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Di ital Computer Operation
and Utilization--Investigation into

the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities cof the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysils

and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine technlques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1059 to determine whether further support is advisable.

 

Proposed Research; Background Informefion: We are organizing what
should be one of the most fruitful centers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, par®
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematlcs, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up %o 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicafted their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (1list of participating colleges and representatives given 1n
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of thelr institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with scme of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facllities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely wlth persons from the
other colleges, will help cocordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in technlques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine

T et