1030 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

A promising analytic approach is the extension of the_ image system for. a
source in an insulating sphere®®: 2.7 to that for a source in a Sph.er'e of finite
conductivity immersed in an infinite medl.um ?f c.hffer.ent conductivity. |

(3) Source and sink oulside disk:. p_otentwls ms.zde disk (FIGURE 11). Again
there are no images. For each position oé the dipole, however, there must be
added a constant potential of value : TG In %. The potential equation is

2G rn  1-—-G a:l
i - In -
V‘—A[l Gln72+1 clng (5)

(4) Source and sink oulside disk: polentials oulside disk (FIGURE 12). Ifasa
first approximation the lung sections are represented by circles, this case would

 

 

Ficure 11. Image system for potential at P inside the disk due to the source (+7) and
sink (—=1) oulside the disk.

give qualitative information about the effect of the lungs on the heart E.M.F.
The sink and source are located at distances of @ and b from the center of the

disk. Images of strength g_—-i:—: I are located inside the disk at distances of
— and > from the center. The potential equation is
71 G — 1 73
Vo =A = b = n— 6
2+ 6=t ©)

Assuming that the lungs have a resistivity four times that of the surrounding
medium, this becomes

V, = A[ln'—‘ +0.61nf-“]
7o 74

which can be compared with EQuaTION 3.

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1031

EQUATION 0 indicates that the magnitude of the effect of the increased re-
sistivity of the lung for a fixed-dipole orientation must depend on (a) the loca-
tion of the field point at which the potential is required and (5) the dipole
angle. For example, consider that the heart E.M.F. and a lung can be repre-
sented by a dipole on the X axis and a disk whose center also lies on the X axis.
If the dipole angle is 0°, the image dipole inside the disk will have an angle of
180° and will be oppositely directed to the real dipole. This means that the
potential in the region between the real dipole and the image dipole (near side
of the disk) will be more positive than in the case of a homogeneous medium.
The region on the far side of the disk will now be less positive, however, because
the image-dipole potential partly offsets that due to the real dipole. Phys-
ically, these effects are caused by the current-shielding properties of the disk.

Vinf=A In—r-'—
rz
saliadt ¢ 5G=F =3
v Alznerr GHlE '4]
ST
2Td

 

FiGure 12. Image system for potential at P ouiside the disk due to the source (4-7) and
sink (—1) outside the disk.

If the real dipole angle is 90°, however, the image dipole angle will also be
90°. Since both dipoles have the same transverse axis, the location of the
zero-potential line is unchanged. Potentials will now be increased on both the
near and far sides of the disk, since the real and image dipoles reinforce each
other. Thus it is not possible to make a general statement about the over-all
effect of the higher resistivity of the lungs.

In the thorax model, conditions are considerably different from the artificial
case of a dipole outside a disk. The lung sections are not circular, and they
surround the heart area more completely. There is also an additional shield-
ing action caused by the spine and sternum sections. It is therefore necessary
to go by the model measurements, although the image concept helps in inter-
preting the results. If the main portions of the lung sections are represented
by circles, images inside the circles can be found for each source and sink
location. This approximation will help in understanding the results of TABLE
1. Tt should be noted that for lung resistivity ratios of 1, 4, and infinity, the

term ((,;—-{-_i in EQUATION 6 has the values 0, 0.6, and 1.0. Thus as the re-