HUMAN THORAX POTENTIALS
By
Clifford V. Nelson

 

Reprinted from
ANNALS OF THE NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES
Volume 65, Article 6, Pages 1014-1050
August 9, 1957


HUMAN THORAX POTEN TIALS*

By Clifford V. Nels
Departmen; of Internal M edicine, oa)

Universiy of Ula) C oy
Salt Lake City, oy ait College of M edicine,

tive dipole ip the heart,

The ex erimental work lal j
Te a Sa of measurements of potential in two-
electroly NK models of the human thorax and of meas.
urements of the distribution of thorax potentials in human subjects In the
two-dimensional studies! the resistivities of the lungs, sternum, spine, and the
heart Itself were taken into account, but the three-dimensjona] studies were
made with a homogeneous medium. In order to study analytically the effects
of electrical inhomogeneities, Image systems were developed for 4 source and
sink in the vicinity of a disk of finite conductivity Surrounded by an infinite
medium having a different conductivity, Since the anatomic] thorax cross
section closely resembled an ellipse, an expression was developed for the po-
tential due to a source and sink inside an ellipse. The measuring equipment
used in the two-dimensional studies has been described previously 2

and

PART I: Two-DIMENSIONAL STUDIES
Validity of T wo-Dimensional Field Studies

Making measurements in sectional models of three-dimensional systems has
been a technique used in engineering for many years.® Where the system is
uniform along the vertical axis, such measurements give very accurate results.
In many cases where such vertical uniformity does not exist, sectional studies
still give surprisingly good results. Recently, sectional models of the human
body have been used to study the leads used in electrocardiography and vector-
cardiography.5 6 Tt is very much easier to make measurements In two dimen-
sions, and it is, therefore, important to determine to what extent such meas-
urements are of value. :

To test this point with reference to the horizontal plane, measurements were
also made in a three-dimensional thorax model. As the outline of the ana-
tomical thorax cross section appeared to resemble an ellipse, an effort Ts
made to draw the true ellipse that would most closely correspond to the actua

. : : i 9 to 1953 in the Ph siology
2 The wor) Served H hens Medical Semon eo the Electrical Engi-
1 ospita , london, ; ;

Depa: deel College of Science, also in London. oe pass o Sei
pn Ee continued at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. Sor on sup-
Per by grants from the British Medical Research Gone London, Fag! H.2500 from the
: 3 : New York, N. y an y ra . = ” . d
Welfare, Bethesda, Md. . . {os f the American Heart Association, New
: ? > “stablished Investigator of the / : 1, Me.

Y J Bosenrch id ial oR Department, Maine Medical Center, Portlanc

or ) ’ .

1014

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1015

   
     

APPROXIMATION OF
THORAX BOUNDARY
BY AN ELLIPSE

  
    
   

=70
ELLIPSE 32, 2 _

      
   
   

A B
A= Ig5 -J3
B= 135 o
C= /a2-p2=95

 

-8
Ficure 1. Approximation of the thorax boundary by an ellipse.

section. The tank js described further in PART II of this article, and is shown
In FIGURE 13,

FIGURE 2 shows the distribution of potential around the boundary of the
homogeneous thorax section, with a dipole angle 8 of 0°, The left-hand edge
of this graph corresponds to the center of the back of the thorax section. Dis-
tances from the left edge to the center correspond to distances going from the
back around the right side of the chest to the front. Zero corresponds to the
mid-sternal line. Distances to the right on the graph go around the eft side
of the chest to the back, and the right-hand edge of FIGURE 2 again corresponds
to the back of the section. FIGURE 3 shows similar boundary distributions
taken in the deep tank at the level] of the dipole center for the same horizontal
angle of the dipole, 8 = (°. From top to bottom the curves are for angles of
the dipole with the horizontal plane (@) of 490° to — 90°, It is seen that for
vertical dipole angles of 130% 0° and —30° the shapes of the curves for the
boundary potential are very similar to the two-dimensional curves, As the
reference electrode was located at the bottom of the deep tank, these potentials
are similar to body Potentials using the left leg as reference. Use of any other
reference point would merely cause an upward or downward deflection of the
entire curve without changing its shape (the amount of the shift depending on


1016 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

the spatial dipole angle). A similar correspondence exists between t
three-dimensional boundary distributions with other horizontal di Eo os
[t is, therefore, possible to draw the following conclusion: Bosc angles.
If the vertical angle a of a dipole in a cylindrical volume conductor is not
than about 230°, the distribution of potential around the boundary of the oulsg,
al the level of the dipole center will be similar in shape, for the same Wy
dipole angles, to the potential distribution around the boundary of a Eien
conductor having the shape of a cross section through the cylinder.
It follows from this that two-dimensional measurements can be used to ob-
tain information about the horizontal component of the spatial vector. FIGURE
4 gives further evidence of this. These charts show the distribution of po-

 
    
  
   
   

©V MEASURED

+0.6 XV CALCULATED
POTENTIAL

v
VOLTS

         

+10 +20 +430 +40
DISTANCE ALONG BOUNDARY

CM.

+ 50

FIGURE 2. Potential distribution around the boundary of a homogeneous thorax cross
section. The dipole angle is 0°. The calculated values are according to EQUATION 12.

tential around the periphery of the deep tank at the level of the dipole center
for horizontal angles (8) of 0°, 30°, 60°, and 90°, and for a vertical angle (a) of
0°. Comparison with FIGURES 5 and 6 for the same horizontal angles in the
two-dimensional thorax section shows that the shapes of the potential dis-
tribution curves in the two cases are very similar.

Effect of Electrical Inhomogeneily on the Potential Field

The nature of the distortions of the electrical field caused by a finite boundary
and by the introduction of good and poor conductors was shown in the model
studies of Katz’ and discussed by Lepeschkin.® The effect of inhomogeneous
areas can best be shown by a comparison with the field of the dipole in a homo-
geneous medium. The charts of FIGURE 5 are all for a 8 angle of 90° (in this
paper, positive angles are taken counterclockwise in accordance with long-
established mathematical conventions). In FIGURE 5a the section 1s homo-

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1017
oc

=90°

 

—————————— EE —————————

 

=60°

30°

0°

==-30°

PPP

 

=-90°
tS I

FiGure 3. Potential distribution around the boundary of a deep tank at the level of the
dipole. The horizontal angle is 0°, and the vertical angle is 4+90° to —90° at 30° intervals.
Compare with FIGURE 2.

geneous, and the departure of the field distribution from that of a dipole in an
infinite medium is due solely to the effect of the boundary. The curves shown
are the equipotentials, with values as marked. The curves on the right show
the variation of potential around the boundary as before. The broken curves
show the potential gradient along the boundary. This is defined as


1018 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

| 5 4V AY

B= =r
dv
dL signifying the derivative of potential with respect to distance along the
boundary L, and being equal to the slope of the curve of V against J. In
practice, E was computed by taking the ratio of small incrementsof V and L,and

AV and AL. E could also be found by moving a pair of closely spaced elec.
trodes around the boundary, but this would be no more accurate than cal-

culating ar Since 7 = kE, where 7 is the current-intensity vector and ig

o =0° B=0° 30°60°90°

B=0°

  
  

Distance around tank

 

Potential

FIGURE 4. Potential distribution around the boundary of a deep tank at the level of the

dipole. The vertical angle is 0°, the horizontal angle 0°, 30°, 60°, and 90°. Compare with
FIGURES 5 and 6.

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1019

 

  

FiGure §. Field- and boundary-potential distributions in a 2-dimensional thorax section
for a 8 angle of 90°. Figure a shows the homogeneous section; in b the spine and sternum
sections are completely insulating, and the lungs havea resistivity ratio of 4 and in ¢ the lung
sections are also completely insulating. The broken curves in the right-hand illustrations
show the distribution of potential gradient around the boundary.

the conductivity, the potential-gradient curves also are proportional to the
variation of current intensity along the boundary. As is obvious from FIGURE
Sa, E is greatest near the center of the front of the section.

FIGURE 5b shows the field when insulating spine and sternum sections and
lung sections with a resistivity four times as great as that of the main body of


1020 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

the electrolyte have been added. This is the value of relative lung resistivity
found by Burger and van Milaan.? In this case the internal field is not greatly
altered, although the 1-v. equipotentials are changed. The shape of the
boundary-potential distribution curve is similar to that of the homogeneous
section, except that the maximum negative potential is now —0.77 v. instead
of —1 v. This potential reduction may be due to a shielding action of the
sternum, which is directly in line with the dipole axis. Also, the potential-
gradient peaks are lower in amplitude and more widely separated from each
other. In FIGURE 5c, the lung, sternum, and spine sections are completely
insulating. These conditions were also tried on the basis of the experiments
of Lindner and Katz,'* in which it was concluded that the lungs are completely
insulating. Also, if completely insulating lung models did not have too much
effect, then lower values of resistivity would be unimportant. In this case,
however, the internal field is considerably altered. The +1-v. equipotential is
altered in shape, and the zero-potential line is shifted toward the back. The
potential distribution between the lung and spine sections is completely differ-
ent. The bounddry-potential distribution curve is similar in its general shape
to the curves of FIGURES 5a and Sb, but the potentials are negative over nearly
the entire boundary. It might be argued that the changes in boundary po-
tential were due merely to shifts in the voltage of the reference electrode.
Although the reference-probe potential probably did change slightly, a com-
parison of the potential-gradient curves, which are independent of the reference
potential, shows that the changes in potential are due mainly to the change in
internal conditions. In FIGURES Sa to Sc, for example, the maximum slope
values are approximately 0.12, 0.08, and 0.04 v./cm. Due to conditions
of symmetry that exist with 8 angles of 90° the potential maxima (M) are
located at the ends of the extended dipole axis.

Potential distributions were also measured for other dipole angles, and in
each case it was found that there was not a great deal of difference between
the cases a and b, that is, between the homogeneous section and the section
using lungs with a resistivity ratio of 4. The completely insulating lungs
caused a considerable distortion of the field, however. FIGURE 6 shows the
distributions obtained in the sections using dipole angles (8) of 0°, 30°, and 60°,
with a lung resistivity ratio of 4. Ficure Sb, with a 8 angle of 90°, can be
considered part of this series.

As the dipole rotates, the field pattern changes markedly. The zero-potential
points remain fairly close to the dipole transverse axis, but the points of maxi-
mum positive and negative potential (M) do not remain at the ends of the
dipole axis. As Hess" and Schaefer? pointed out, when the dipole is not at
the center of the section the points of maximum potential lie along a curved
arc passing through the poles of the dipole. It is interesting to note, however,
that a line joining the maxima is roughly parallel to the dipole axis. The loca-
tion of the zero-potential points depends upon the reference electrode’s being a
true null point. On the other hand, the location of the potential maxima is
independent of the reference potential, since a change in the reference potential
would be added to or subtracted from the potential of every point in the field.

FIGURES 6 and 5b also show how the distribution of potential around the

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1021

   
   

ny Pp “ \/

FiGure 6. Field- and boundary-potential distributions in a 2-dimensional thorax section
for 8 angles of 0° (a), 30° (b), and 60° (¢). In all cases the lungs have a resistivity ratio of 4,
and the spine and sternum sections are completely insulating. FiGURE Sb forms part of this
series for a B angle of 90°.

boundary changes as the dipole rotates. For 8 angles of 0°, 30°, and 60° the
potential gradient is maximum at the point on the boundary nearest to the
dipole center (0 cm.). This illustrates a possible method of finding the loca-
tion of the resultant dipole of the heart from measurements on the chest wall.


1022 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

In measurements of the distribution of potential around the chest at the mjq.
ventricular level® the peak of the potential-gradient curve was usually from
3 to 8 cm. to the left of the mid-sternal line. FIGURE Sb shows, however, that
if the dipole angle is 90°, the potential-gradient curve is biphasic, with positive
and negative maxima equally spaced about the dipole center. In this case the
potential gradient at the point on the boundary nearest the dipole center is
zero. The points of zero gradient coincide with points of maximum or mini.
mum potential, since at these points the curve of potential against distance
must have zero slope. Changes of reference potential would have absolutely
no effect on the potential-gradient curves and would cause only an upward or
downward shift of the entire potential curve.

Because of this fact no attempt was made to find an exact zero reference
potential. The reference electrode was placed either midway between the
poles of the dipole or at a remote point of the tank. It would have been
possible to use the reference potential at the junction point of two resistors, 18
but this would have necessitated precautions to avoid any polarization of the
current electrodes. Frank and Kay! have discussed the problems involved
with the above two types of reference systems. A more elaborate method is
that of Sugi,'® who put three electrolytic tanks “in series” by means of wicks
and put his reference electrode in a neutral tank. Experiments are now in
progress in this laboratory to adapt the double-layer tank® to measurements
in which a finite boundary is present in the upper layer. The technique is to
leave a very narrow gap in the boundary and to use the bottom layer electrode
as the reference point. The gap should have a negligible effect on the potential
distribution inside the boundary.

The effect of increasing the resistivity of the lung sections was also studied
for other dipole angles. The results are given in TABLE 1.

Dipole 0°. The only significant changes between the homogeneous section
and the section in which the lung areas had a resistivity ratio of 4 was that the
maximum potential-gradient increased by 12 per cent, and the potential
maxima on the boundary shifts in location by about 1 cm. When the ratio
increased from 4 to infinity the magnitudes of both positive and negative po-
tential maxima decreased, and the lateral-wall potentials also decreased. The
potential maxima were located much nearer the front of the section. These
effects may be explained by the increased shielding action of the lung sections.

Dipole 30°. As the resistivity ratio was changed from 1 to infinity the mag-
nitude of the maximum negative potential on the right side increased, but the
maximum positive potential on the left side fell. The side-wall potentials
varied in the same way. The left-side maximum potential dropped to about
one third of its original value, whereas the increase in right-side maximum
potential was only 13 per cent. The locations of the potential maxima and
zero points on the boundary did not change to any great extent. The maxi-
mum potential gradient increased in value as the resistivity ratio increased
from 1 to 4, and then decreased again as the ratio increased from 4 to infinity.
As the resistivity of the lung sections increased, the right lung tended to channel
the current toward the front of the thorax, and this caused the potential in this
region to increase. At the same time, however, the left lung impeded the flow

 

 

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1023
TABLE 1
EFFECT OF CHANGES IN RELATIVE RESISTIVITY OF Lunc SecTIONS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Vmax. Vmax, Viero Vv
magnitude location location lateral wall,
; Res. volts cm. cm, Ex Ey volts
ratio magnitude location
volts/cm cm

R L R L R —25 +25
Cl cm
0° —.68|.68/—10.2{10.4/ 0 [49.5 214 0 —.45 45
4 —.069/.68| —9.2| 9.2 0 [49.5 244 40.5 —.46 | .46
© —.60[.54| —5.8| 5.8(— 0.1/49.5 250 0 —.30 24
30° 1 — 771.60 —5 |18.4|—40.1| 2.5 196 40.5 —.22 57
4 —.86[.51| —4 |18.4|—42.4| 2.1 223 —-0.4 —.29 | .49
0 —.89(.21| —4 |17 |—48 2.6 20 0 —-.33 20
60° 1 —.87|.53] —2 [31 |—22.8]| 6.8 L150 +1.1 06 | .52
4 —.88/.51| —4 [32 |-—25.6| 7 .142 —0.4 —.02 | .49
© —1.03/.09( —3.6/40 |—47 |23 L132 +0.4 —-.30 | .03
90° 1 —1 “352 0.2/49.5|—13.6/14.1| + .115 +2.6 34 | L34
4 —.77|.47 0 [49.5|—15.2(15.3] +.075 +5.2 ok 31
0 —.88/.03 0 [|49.5|—42 |42 + .040 +5 —-.20 1] .20

_ ee

Column 1 is the dipole angle. Column 2 shows the resistivity ratio of the lung sections
(resistivity ratio 1 is the homogeneous section, and for ratios of 4 and infinity the insulating
spine and sternum sections were also in the tank). Columns 3 and 4 give the magnitude and
location of points of maximum positive and negative potential on the thorax boundary. Col-
umn 5 shows the location of the points of zero potential. Columns 6 and 7 show the magni-
tude and location of the peak of the potential-gradient curve on the boundary. Column 8
gives the potential at points on the right and left lateral walls of the thorax section, at dis-
tances from the mid-sternal line of —25 cm. and +25 cm.

of current to the left side of the thorax, and the potential in this region was
decreased.

Dipole 60°. Again, with increasing lung-resistivity ratio, the magnitude of
the maximum negative potential on the right side was increased, and the
maximum positive potential on the left side decreased. The location of the
potential maxima and the zero points showed a marked change. The maxi-
mum potential gradient showed a steady decrease, and the side-wall potentials
were considerably altered. The shape of the potential-gradient curve also

changed. At +6 cm. on the boundary, for example, the value of E changed
from 0.06 v./cm. to 0.03 v./cm. This means that the slope of the potential
curve is smaller, and the curve is more spread out, as found. It is possible,
however, that the increased negativity of the entire curve may be partly due
to a change in the reference potential.

Dipole 90°. The complete set of charts for the dipole at 90° is shown in
FIGURE 5, and it has been previously discussed. The complicated effect of
the inhomogeneous areas can again be emphasized by noting that as the lung-
resistivity ratio increased, the maximum negative -potential on the boundary
changed from —1.0 v. to —0.77 v. and back to —0.88 v. The fact that the
posterior sides and back were not more positive may possibly be due to the
shielding action of the spine section.


1024 Annals New York Academy of Sciences
Effect of Greater Conductivity of the Heart Area

In the experiments discussed so f :
ductivity of the heart!®: 17. 18 que to de 0 In rte greater con-
test this point the thorax model was rearranged so that re - e oxderto
trolyte was made greater over the heart area. This was done b 2 : l oy Sec
a piece the shape of the heart cross section (at mid-ventricular level) yong
plastic base of the model. The resistivity is best expressed in he 5 he
resistivity ratio, G, which is defined as the ratio of the resistivity of 5h
that of the main body of the electrolyte. The bottom diagram of a i
shows the boundary distributions for the following conditions: dipole g at oo
G for the heart area, 0.45; G for the lung section, 4; and G for the spine and
sternum section, infinite. A comparison of this with the top curve, in which
the heart area G is 1.0, showed that the boundary distributions are similar in
shape, but that there is an over-all reduction in amplitude with the highly

       
  
    
    

~-50° © =40—g—9-30 0 +40 +50

DIPOLE 90°
LUNG RR:=4
HEART RR.=0,45

i — 0)

~O.
js 3 N CM. ALONG BOUNDARY

LEFT

8 angle of 90°,

potential distribution for a B. !
Cog f increased conductivity (b).

FIGURE 7. |
area (a) and with a heart area 0

with a uniform heart

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1025

conductive heart area. The positions of the zero points and potential maxima
remain unchanged. This is in agreement with physiological experiments in
which it was concluded that the effect of the relatively greater conductivity of
the heart was uniformly to scale down the electrocardiographic potentials,!?
and that increased filling of the frog heart reduced the electrical response.2?
A reduction in external potentials was also observed when good electrical con-
ductors were placed on the ventricle of the dog heart? Such effects have
been attributed to the “shunting” action of the blood 2222

Effect of Two Dipoles Acting Simullaneously

Lewis* and others have considered that the left and right ventricles may
have individual effects on the electrocardiogram, at least in the chest leads.
In 1933 Rijlant,* using a cathode-ray oscilloscope with an amplification of
about 3 cm./mv. and a film speed of about 250 mm./sec., found notching not
only in the R wave, but also in the P and S waves. He attributed his results
to the simultaneous recording of two or more activities. In order to study the
effect of independent regions of excitation of the heart on chest potentials,
experiments were carried out with two separate dipoles in the heart area of the
thorax section simultaneously. It was found that if the centers of the two
dipoles were located at the same point the boundary-potential distribution
was identical with that produced by a single dipole that was the vector sum
of the two separate dipoles. If the centers of the two dipoles did not coincide,
however, the effect of each dipole could be seen. In the experiments of FIGURE
8, two dipoles were located in the ventricular area about 2.5 cm. to the right
and left of the mid-sternal line. In FIGURE 8a, the right ventricular dipole 3
angle was 0°, and the left heart dipole 8 angle was 22°. The only noticeable
effect was the dip in the potential-gradient curve. In FIGURE 8b the values of
8 were 90° for the right ventricle and 180° for the left ventricle. Although the
potential curve was similar to one that would be obtained from a single dipole,
the presence of the extra dipole was indicated by the change in slope of the
potential curve and the corresponding dip in the potential gradient. In the
model experiments with a single dipole, smooth curves were obtained for the
variation of potential and gradient around the boundary. In FIGURE 8c the
B angle was 137° for the right ventricle and —130° for the left ventricle. In
this case the distributions are complicated, and they could not be taken for a
single dipole curve. In the three cases shown, the peaks of the potential
gradient curves do not accurately indicate the locations of the dipoles. This
method of finding the dipole location can, therefore, be used only when there is
a single effective dipole in action. It is evident that the greater the physical
separation between the two dipoles, the greater will be the individual effect of
each dipole on the surface potential. These experiments indicate that whereas
the vectorcardiogram taken at remote points will give the resultant dipole,
chest leads near the heart should also be taken to obtain information about
local excitation of the heart. The two types of measurement provide comple-
mentary data.


1026 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

  
   

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1027
SOUNDARY-DISTRIBUTION rh :
Ais TRIBUTION Ee 22% oe Distributed Source in Thorax Section
VOLTS TE Vo —_— It was previously shown? that the field of two half shells in an infinite me-

2 ; . :
voLTs  +20PR+8 dium was equivalent to a dipole field at remote points. When the distributed

source was in the thorax section in the heart area, the distance between its
front surface and the nearest point on the boundary was only 3 cm. Even
under these conditions, however, it was found that the boundary-potential

aL +30 +40 450 | distribution was very similar to that of the equivalent dipole.

   

+10

Application of Method of Images to Study of Effects of Regions
LEFT of High or Low Resistivity*

When the potential of a source in a volume conductor enclosed by an in-
sulating boundary is considered,? the ratio of resistivities of the media con-
cerned is infinite. The method of images can also be used when the resistivity

: ratio is finite. Using the method of calculation of Hague 2? the image system
BOUNDARY-DISTRIBUTION Circa 3s 90° for a current source in the vicinity of a circular disk of finite resistivity has been
DIPOLES AT 90"aNDISO* +2 : derived. It has been found that four Image systems are required, depending
on whether the current source and sink are inside or outside the disk, and
whether potentials are required inside or outside the disk.

(1) Source and sink inside disk: polentials inside disk. If in the thorax sec-
tion the heart area is considered circular in shape, then this case would be
analogous to the case of potentials inside the heart due to the heart electro-
motive force (E.M.F.) taken as a dipole, or point source and sink. For this
and the other three cases, the following symbols are used:

 

~

; = potential at a point P inside the disk.

potential at a point P outside the disk.

= resistivity of disk.

= resistivity of medium surrounding disk.
/

Sc
l

 

 

L = resistivity ratio.
p

current.

depth of electrolyte (assumed constant).
= distance from sink to center of disk.

= distance from source to center of disk.
distance from P to sink.

= distance from P to source.

= distance from P to image of sink.
distance from P to image of source.

137°

BOUNDARY=DISTRIBUTION

8 AN Q OO
Il

Xxx
I I

pL
2wd

 

RIGHT LEFT

Cc

FIGURE 8. Boundary-potential distributions with separate dipoles located in right-ven- The sink and source are located at distances a and b from the center of the

o
: oft. : ; are 0° and 22°; in b, 90° and 180°; and : “
rich pond Is IL ventricular ihe) ho Bane a” would result if both com- * The term “image” as used here should not be confused with the image surface” of

i i 0 ilaan??s—e ith “mirror-image” electrocardiograms on the chest wall.
ponent vectors were located at the same point. A comparison of these cneves ith those Burger and van Milaan or with “I g g
FIGURE 6 shows the degree of departure from the corresponding resultant dipole.


1028 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

disk (FIGURE 9). The images are located along the radii extended at distances
2 2

from the center x and = where R is the radius of the disk. The potential at

a point P inside the disk is then

V, = mn 128 on]
2

© 2nd y 14+G br,
-Ga[m2 4126), on 0
= ro 14Gb;

If it 1s assumed that the average resistivity of the heart is one half that of the
surrounding region, then from EQUATION 1

A ary

AL 5 1
V:, = 2 5 + 3 In - (2)

The potential of the source and sink in a homogeneous medium of resistivity p
would be

V=dAh2 3)

7

The lower resistivity in the heart area, therefore, has a complicated effect on
the internal potentials.

(2) Source and sink inside disk— potentials outside disk (FIGURE 10). In this
case there are no images outside the disk, but the original source and sink, +7

r
Vinf.zA In —
rz
is ry 1=6f 13 9
Vi=GA ng +222 +1 ¢)
_ AI
A=>Td

 

FIGURE 9. Tmage system for potential at P inside the disk due to the source (+7) and
sink (—1) inside the disk.

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1029

and —7, are replaced by a source of strength toe (I) and a sink of strength

2G ;
TT (I). The potential at any external point is then

2G 71
V, = N———— i.
1 += G 4 In 79 (4)
and for a resistivity ratio of 0.5,
5 2 71
V, = 3 A In 7

The effect of the lower heart resistivity is, therefore, uniformly to scale down

r
Vinf.= A Int
rz

{26\ x. l0
Vo 25) In rs

 

 

FIGURE 10. Image system for potential at P outside the disk due to the source (417) and
sink (—1I) inside the disk.

all external potentials. This agrees with the experimental results quoted
previously. Schwan'® has presented evidence that the blood has one tenth
the resistivity of the tissues surrounding the heart. Using a resistivity ratio
of 0.1 in EQUATION 4,

V, = 0184 nm
2

Further work is necessary in three dimensions to test the tentative conclu-
sion that the effect of the highly conducting blood inside the heart is uniformly
to scale down the surface electrocardiograms. If this proves to be correct it
will be necessary to multiply the observed magnitude of the heart vector by a
factor that depends on the ratio of the resistivity of the tissues surrounding
the heart to the resistivity of the blood.*

* Subsequent to the presentation of this article, experiments with dog hearts* have indi-

cated that the reduction is uniform at remote points, but is variable in the vicinity of the
heart.


1030 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

A promising analytic approach is the extension of the image system for a
source in an insulating sphere®®: 2 to that for a source in a sphere of finite
conductivity immersed in an infinite medium of different conductivity. :

(3) Source and sink oulside disk: potentials inside disk (FIGURE 11). Again
there are no images. For each position o the dipole, however, there must be
added a constant potential of value TC In 5 The potential equation is

2G 71 1-—-G a
: 1
=a; gale Ltr] (5)

(4) Source and sink oulside disk: polentials oulside disk (FIGURE 12). Ifasa
first approximation the lung sections are represented by circles, this case would

 

 

Ficure 11. Image system for potential at P inside the disk due to the source (+7) and
sink (=1) outside the disk.

give qualitative information about the effect of the lungs on the heart E.M.F.
The sink and source are located at distances of a and b from the center of the

disk. Images of strength oe I are located inside the disk at distances of
= and 5 from the center. The potential equation is
n  G—1, nr;
Vo =A = In= 6
[m2 +6 tn] (©)

Assuming that the lungs have a resistivity four times that of the surrounding
medium, this becomes

Vo, = an” +06m” |
79 74

which can be compared with EQuaTION 3.

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1031

EQUATION 6 indicates that the magnitude of the effect of the increased re-
sistivity of the lung for a fixed-dipole orientation must depend on (a) the loca-
tion of the field point at which the potential is required and (b) the dipole
angle. For example, consider that the heart E.M.F. and a lung can be repre-
sented by a dipole on the X axis and a disk whose center also lies on the X axis.
If the dipole angle is 0°, the image dipole inside the disk will have an angle of
180° and will be oppositely directed to the real dipole. This means that the
potential in the region between the real dipole and the image dipole (near side
of the disk) will be more positive than in the case of a homogeneous medium.
The region on the far side of the disk will now be less positive, however, because
the image-dipole potential partly offsets that due to the real dipole. Phys-
ically, these effects are caused by the current-shielding properties of the disk.

Vinf=A Int
rz
And) OF 3
Vo Anes GT] In |
21
21d

 

FiGure 12. Image system for potential at P ouiside the disk due to the source (47) and
sink (—1) outside the disk.

If the real dipole angle is 90°, however, the image dipole angle will also be
90°. Since both dipoles have the same transverse axis, the location of the
zero-potential line is unchanged. Potentials will now be increased on both the
near and far sides of the disk, since the real and image dipoles reinforce each
other. Thus it is not possible to make a general statement about the over-all
effect of the higher resistivity of the lungs.

In the thorax model, conditions are considerably different from the artificial
case of a dipole outside a disk. The lung sections are not circular, and they
surround the heart area more completely. There is also an additional shield-
ing action caused by the spine and sternum sections. It is therefore necessary
to go by the model measurements, although the image concept helps in inter-
preting the results. If the main portions of the lung sections are represented
by circles, images inside the circles can be found for each source and sink
location. This approximation will help in understanding the results of TABLE
1. Tt should be noted that for lung resistivity ratios of 1, 4, and infinity, the

term ig in EQUATION 6 has the values 0, 0.6, and 1.0. Thus as the re-


1032 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

sistivity ratio increases the strength of the images increases, and the lung sec-
tions have relatively more effect on the field distribution.

EquaTions 1, 4, 5, and 6 were tested experimentally in the double-layer tank
by using disks of various thickness in the electrolyte. In this way some errors
were found and corrected; this illustrates another use for the tank.

As a further check, the potential distributions for cases a and & above
were calculated by the conventional method of potential theory, that is, by
expanding the potential in an infinite series using polar coordinates and finding
a solution of Laplace’s equation that satisfies the boundary conditions. The
results were identical to those found by using Hague’s simplified method.

Simultaneous Effect of Lower-Heart and Higher-Lung Resistivities

Again we make the approximation of representing the heart and lung sec-
tions by circles. The heart E.M.F. is represented by +7 and —7. If we let
G, equal the heart resistivity ratio, then it is seen from EQUATION 4 that the

 

 

sous on 2G, 1
inhomogeneous heart area can be eliminated by substituting + 1 7 C for +1
1
and = La I for —I. Substituting these values in EQUATION 6, with G,
1

equal to the lung-resistivity ratio, the potential at any point outside both the
heart and lung areas is

2G, 71 G, — 1 73
ik 2 7
Vo afm Et] )

with G; = 0.5, and G; = 4, EQUATION 7 becomes

 

l= d [2 + 061” |
3 70 74

This shows that in addition to the potential changes caused by the lung sec-
tions as expressed by the second term inside the bracket, there is also an over-all
reduction of potentials by two thirds. Ficure 7 shows that the actual reduc-
tion is about one half, but that the observed reduction is uniform (the equa-
tions derived above are accurate only for a disk immersed in an infinite me-
dium). Thus, the effects of the higher resistivity of the lungs and the lower
resistivity of the heart tend to counteract each other in some areas and to be
additive in others, since the effect of the lung sections is to incrcasc the po-
tential at some points and to decrease it at others.

Straighi-Line Boundaries Belween Regions Having Finile Resistivities

With straight-line boundaries, two image systems are necessary, depending
on which side of the boundary potentials are measured. Consider a sink —/
and a source 4/ immersed in a conducting medium having resistivity p’,
which is separated from a medium of resistivity p by an infinite straight line.
For the measurement of potentials within the medium in which the source and

So

—

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1033

sink are located, images must be added in the other medium
tance from the boundary. Then

’ '7 r 1 — G r
VV =Pr Am ei a
27d in 79 + 1 he G In J (8)

at an equal dis-

/
where again G = 2

For potentials in the other medium there are no images, but +7 and —7

 

2 2
must be replaced by + 1+G I and “110 I. Then
/
hn I 2 71
71 1EC "7% 9)

In these equations, it is assumed that all space has the resistivity p’. Dia-
grams of image systems for straight-line boundaries as applied to nerve con-
duction were given by Bishop. A paper by Pruitt and Valencia,?® to which
reference was previously made,” gives the image system for plane boundaries
and applies the method to a problem involving myocardial injury.

Potential Due lo a Source and Sink Inside an Ellipse: Mathematical Expression

Since the thorax cross section so closely resembles an ellipse, an attempt has
been made to find an image system for a source inside an ellipse, but this has
not been successful. Hicks® described an image system involving a line-source
and line-doublet distribution between the foci of the ellipse, but the evaluation
of the potential was difficult. Therefore it was necessary to expand the po-
tential in an infinite series of elliptical harmonics, using elliptical coordinates,
and to put in the boundary conditions that the potential V and its first deriva-
tive were everywhere continuous inside the ellipse (except at the source itself)
and that the normal derivative was zero at the boundary. By making an
approximation leading to an error of about 1 per cent, the infinite series ex-
pansion was reduced to finite form.

It can be shown® that the relation between the elliptical coordinates # and
v and the rectangular coordinates x and y is given by the equations:

2 2
x pl Tey (10)

(? cosh? u (? sinh? u
cos? v + sin?v = 1 (11)

Then the curves # = constant are a family of ellipses with major axes on the
X axis and minor axes on the Y axis. FIGURE 1 shows the parameters for the
ellipse chosen to represent the thorax section. For this ellipse, # = #,. A
line between the foci would represent the limiting ellipse, # = 0. The lines
v = constant represent a system of orthogonal, confocal hyperbolas.

The potential distribution around the periphery of the ellipse due to a source


1034 Annals New York Academy of Sciences
and sink located anywhere inside the ellipse is given by:
> cosh (uo + #”) — cos (v + 2") |
Vei=AIln| — FF ————— =
cosh (#9 + #') — cos (v + 2’) |
for (wo — 4”) — cos (v — 2”)
cosh (uy — uu’) — cos (v — 7’)

jo Buo — 4”) — cos (v + | (12)

cosh (Bug — #’) — cos (v +2)

cosh (Bug + #’) — cos (v — ?)

Joost + 4”) — cos (v — 7]

where

Vs = potential at a point on the boundary of the ellipse.
I ro : :

A = = and p = resistivity of the internal medium.
m™

uy, v = elliptical coordinates of a point on the boundary.

u', v = elliptical coordinates of the source.

u”, v” = elliptical coordinates of the sink.

The elliptical coordinates of a point can be found from?!

 

 

=F] + 72

cosh u 2C (13)
aT

COS ¥v = oC (14)

where 7; and 7; are the distances from the foci of the ellipse to the point in
question, and 2C is the distance hetween the foci. In FIGURE 2 the circles
represent values of potential measured around the boundary of the thorax
section fora 8 angle of 0°, and the crosses are values calculated from EQUATION
12. For values of 8 equal to 30° 60° and 90° the agreement was not quite
as good as this, but it was still within 10 per cent. The shapes of the measured
and calculated curves agreed very closely, but the curves were shifted relative
to each other. This may signify that the reference electrode was not exactly
at zero potential. The field due to any number of sources and sinks can be
obtained from EQUATION 12 by superposition.

The equation for the potential at any point inside the ellipse due to a source
and sink at any two points is more complicated than EQuaTION 12, but is still
expressed in finite form. Thus the potential due to a source alone is given by

V.= —4 In [cosh (# + %’') — cos (v + v')] [cosh (¥ — «’) — cos (v — v')]
2

[cosh (2ug — u + «’) — cos (v + v')] [cosh (2uo — u — u’) — cos (v — v)]
[cosh (2ug + u — u’) — cos (v + v')] [cosh (2uo + u + wu’) — cos (v — ?¥)]
[cosh (duo — u — wu’) — cos (v + ©')] [cosh (duo — u + 2’) — cos (v — ¥')]

(15)

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1035

In this equation, # and » are the coordinates of the point for which the potential
is required. A similar expression holds for the sink, using #”, and ©” instead
of #' and 7’.

To illustrate the use of EQUATION 12 and the method of finding « and », the
potential expression is derived for the conditions of FIGURE 1. To find the
value of #o , any point on the boundary can be used. Taking the point x =
+A = 16.5 and using EQUATION 13,

~ 2047 =
cosh #y = eT 1.74
Uy = 1.15

Since from the definition of an ellipse, r;, + 7, = constant, the same value of
uo would be obtained for any other point on the boundary. For the source,

hu = =
cosh u T 1.185
uw = 0.60
and from EQUATION 14
ro. 129-96"
COS ? = = 0.174
o = —80°

The minus sign for ©’ is explained by the fact that the range of v is approxi-
mately the same as the corresponding polar angle. Thus in FIGURE 1, v has a
value between 0° and 90° in the first quadrant of the x, y plane, between 90°
and 180° in the second quadrant, etc. Since the source is in the fourth quad-
rant, it must lie in the range of 0° to —90°. For the sink,

uw” = 0.60
v = —100° = — (7 + 7)
Substituting the values in EQUATION 12, with 4 = 1.0,
Vim ln [22 + cos (v + | [136 + cos (v — we]
2.96 — cos (» — 80°) 1.16 — cos (» + 80°)
8.67 + cos (v + ] [x + cos (v — |
8.67 — cos (v — 80°) |.28.7 — cos (v + 80°)

To find V, for any point, v is found from EQUATION 14 and used in EQUATION
16. Thus, forx = +4,v = 0°. Then V, = In 1.59 = 0.46 v. The meas-
ured value of potential at this point is 0.47 v.

Two other equations that are useful in converting between elliptical and
rectangular coordinates are

(16)

x = C cosh u cos v (17)
vy = C sinh % sin v (18)


1036 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

PART II: THREE-DIMENSIONAL STUDIES

In order to compare the two-dimensional measurements with those made in
three dimensions, the cross section of the deep tank had the shape of the
ellipse of FIGURE 1. The tank, shown in FIGURE 13, consisted of a plastic
elliptical cylinder, 18 in. in depth, with the major axis of the cross section 12.6
in. (32.1 cm.) and minor axis 10.1 in. (25.7 cm.). The length of the periphery
was, therefore, 35.9 in. (91.3 cm.). Although models fashioned after a human
thorax®e**. # are more accurate for the specific subject, it was thought that
in view of the wide variations in body build between individuals, the elliptical
tank would be sufficiently accurate for most purposes. Also, it has been shown
that the detailed shape of the torso is relatively unimportant? I found, how-
ever, that it was necessary to retain the elliptical cross section, since a circle
used to represent the thorax section gave less accurate results.

The measuring equipment was similar to that used with the flat tank ? ex-
cept that a new type of differential amplifier was designed to couple between
the search and reference electrodes and an oscilloscope. Two current elec-
trodes were mounted in the tank in a position corresponding to that of the
heart in the body, that is, nearer to the front and top of the tank. These
electrodes were mounted on insulated arms that were suspended from a cali-
brated disk. The disk was rotatable about both the horizontal and vertical
axes, so that any angle in space could be obtained. The measuring probe
consisted of platinum wire soldered to the end of a length of stainless-steel

 

FIGURE 13. Deep tank and measuring equipment.

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1037

hypodermic-needle tubing. This assembly was inserted into a glass tube, and
the glass was sealed off around the platinum wire, leaving only the end ex-
posed. By means of a sliding-rod mechanism, the search probe could be
motor-driven around the periphery of the ellipse, giving the boundary-potential
distribution very quickly. The reference electrode was a piece of platinum
foil cemented to the bottom of the tank at the back.

The 500-cycle search and reference voltages from the tank were connected
to inputs 1 and 2 of the differential amplifier (r1cGUrRE 14a). The voltages were
amplified by the two pentodes and applied to the primary of a transformer.
The output of the unit consisted of a voltage the magnitude of which, with
respect to ground, was proportional to the difference in voltage between the
search and reference electrodes. This voltage was applied to the Phase-Sensi-
tive Rectifier (FIGURE 14b). After passing through an attenuator, the signal
was amplified by the 6J7 and rectified by the 6H6 tube. The resulting DC
voltage was passed through a two-section filter and applied to the vertical
input of a cathode-ray oscilloscope. In order to provide polarity information,

S K.

    

 

0 400V.

Set gain

Cutput to
Phase sensitive
Rectifier

 

From | RS 6H6GT/a
coupling. mY So
unit bh

FIGURE 14. Measuring circuits used with the deep tank.


1038 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

a constant 500-cycle reference voltage E, was applied to the in
tube in series with the tank voltage E,. The oscilloscope co
justed so that when E, equalled 0 the spot was centered vertical

screen. Depending on the position of the search probe in et So
reference electrode in the deep tank, E, was either in phase with E > fo the
adding to it, or out of phase with E, and subtracting from it. In this hershey
“plus” or “minus” voltage in the tank would result in an upward or ns ) a
deflection of the oscilloscope spot. The switch S2 and the 4.5-v. batter ey
in FIGURE 14b were used to obtain additional DC bias for the onions 5
but should not be needed with most commercial oscilloscopes.

For horizontal positioning of the oscilloscope spot, fine copper wire w
wound on an elliptical form having the same eccentricity as the tank cross
tion. A DC voltage was applied across this ellipse and, as the search probe
traveled around the tank periphery, a spring contact tapped off a portion of
this voltage and applied it to the horizontal plates of the oscilloscope. Thus
as the search probe moved around the tank the oscilloscope spot traveled from
left to right across the screen, and its vertical position was proportional to the
potential produced by the dipole. To obtain a record, it was necessary to
keep the camera shutter open for only a single revolution of the probe.

put of the 637
ntrols were ad-

pe used,

Tank Results

Using this system, the potential around the tank wall was measured at 12
horizontal levels for each dipole angle in space. This was done for all
possible spatial-dipole angles at 30° intervals.

The data obtained from the tank can be used in two ways:

(1) Since potentials at all points on the thorax model are available for a
given dipole orientation, any system of vectorcardiography can be tested. It
is now generally agreed that the limbs have the same potential as adjoining
points on the thorax, so systems involving limb leads can be included. In
addition, points on the thorax not included in one of the 12 levels can be ob-
tained by interpolation. In this way Einthoven’s triangle and a modification
thereof have been tested.®

(2) By making similar measurements of the distribution of potential around
the thorax for human subjects at a fixed instant of time during the cardiac
cycle, the spatial-dipole angle of the heart vector can be estimated by deter-
mining which of the model distributions fits most closely. FIGURE 15 shows
the distribution of potential around the thorax at 7 horizontal levels for a
normal male subject at the time corresponding to the peak of the R wave In
lead II. The levels were measured in centimeters above (4) or below (—) the
center of excitation, which is taken as 5 cm. below the nipple line. The levels
shown were taken at Z = +20, +16.5, +12, +8.2, 41.3, —3.2, and —9.2.

FIGURE 16 shows the tank data for a dipole « angle of —60° and 8 angle 0

—30°. The « angle is defined as the angle between the spatial vector and the

i l ilson’s notation, is that between
horizontal plane. The 3 angle, following Wilson hn os

the projection of the vector on the horizontal plane and the
frontal plane. We use the term ar for the Einthoven angle, that 1s,

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1039

between the projection of the vector on the frontal plane and the +X axis, in
order to emphasize the fact that this angle is a “projected” one. With this
system the spatial angle of the vector can be visualized easily. The vector is
assumed to lie parallel to the frontal plane, pointing to the left side of the body,
and parallel to the horizontal plane, that is, both « and 8 angles of 0°. It is
then simply rotated through the angle 8 and tipped up or down through the
angle «. Comparing the distributions of FIGURE 16 with corresponding levels
in FIGURE 15, it is evident that there is a general agreement between the
curves. The curves of FIGURE 15 actually lie somewhere between the graphs
of FIGURE 15 and those in which both « and 8 angles are —30°. We can there-
fore conclude that the spatial angle corresponding to FIGURE 15 is approxi-
mately an a angle of —45° and a 8 angle of —30°. Both « and 8 should be
correct to within 210°. The curves of FIGURE 15 show evidence of the presence
of local excitation processes, or more than one effective dipole in the heart.

FIGURE 16 is a typical tank data sheet. The drawings show the projections
of the vector on the horizontal, frontal, and sagittal planes. With the system
used, the horizontal-plane projection shows the true angle 8, but the angles in
the other two projections are not generally equal to a. It has, in fact, been
shown?®® that

 

t =
an ap = — (19)

Other relationships that hold in the system used are:

 

tan «a
tan a; = nA (20)
A; = A cosa cos fB (21)
A, = A cosasin fp (22)
A: = A sina (23)
Ay = Adi =V A2 + A2 = A cosa (24)

A= A; = AZ + 4.2 = AV1 — cos? asin’ B (25)
Ady: = A, = VA: + 42 = AV1 — cos? a cos? (26)

In these equations A is the magnitude of the vector in space, and 4x, 4y,
and A, are the horizontal, frontal, and sagittal projections, respectively. Itis
evident that it is necessary to find both « and 8 for a complete determination
of the heart vector.

FIGURE 17 shows the boundary-potential and potential-gradient curves for
another subject, also taken at the peak of the R wave in lead II. Comparing
these curves with the tank charts, it can be determined that the a angle is
—15° and the 8 angle is 0°. Ficure 18 shows the tank data for « and S
angles of 0°. An accurate mathematical treatment of the potential due to a
source and sink in a finite elliptical cylinder is very difficult. A solution can
be approached by considering an infinite series of dipole images obtained by


ER ers se rr =

1040 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

Z—cm,

+20

 

+ 16,5

 

+12

+:8.2

 

 

 

FIGURE 15. Potential distribution around the thorax of a tall, thin subject at 7 horizontal
levels at a time corresponding to the peak of the R wave in lead II (E. M. 6/12/51).

 

 

 

   
   

: TOP VIEW
X= =60 i
3= - 30 3
Z— cm.
12.7
RIGHT LEFT
-X 0 +X
10.2
-Y
7.6
FRONT VIEW
+z Xr =-63.4
5.1

43.5

  

2.5 =X Ne
0

Ref LiL
-2.5 G -Z |
Potential 32.1 tan of = Q

 

 

no
3
Distance around cos
tank wall
-5.1
LEFT SIDE VIEW
X .=—106.1"
—-7.6
—10.2
—152
—20.3 :
; _ tan
fone y= sin 13
-29.7 e257
Right Left Dimensions in cm.
Back Front Back

FIGURE 16. Potential distribution around the wall of a deep tank at 13 different hori-
zontal levels. The dipole angles are («) —60° and (8) —30°. Projections of the spatial
dipole on the horizontal, frontal, and sagittal planes are shown to the right. The angle a 1s
the angle of the dipole with the horizontal plane, and B is the angle between the projection of
the vector on the horizontal plane and the +X axis.

1041


1042

Ficure 17.

6/26/51).

Potential distribution around the thorax of
build at 4 horizontal levels at a time corresponding to the pe

Annals New York Academy of Sciences

      
  

GB 6/26/%
Z* +6.5cm.

       

OFF 90 +40

Distance oround chest=CM.

GB 7/10/51
Zs» Ocm. Vv +164++08 E

 

G.B. 7/10/51
Z=-5¢cm,

 

G.B. 7/31/51
Z+-12cm,

 

a normal male subject of medium

ak of the R wave in

 

TOP VIEW
+¥Y

 

7.6
5 | FRONT VIEW
+7 °
F=0
25
-X +X
43.5
0

  

Potential
Distance around
tank wall
-25 32.1

LEFT SIDE VIEW

Ey iS -7.6 -Y 0 +Y

-1.4 FRONT BACK

| -2
-20.3 rid

Dimensions in cm.

Back

Figure 18. Potential distribution
B angles are 0°.

around the wall of a deep tank when both the a and

1043


1044 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

reflections in the top and bottom surfaces.** The image solution must then
be combined with the potential distribution on the wall of an infinite elliptical
cylinder. nT Sho

The method of showing the potential distribution over the thorax described
above is, in my opinion, preferable to plotting the equipotentials on the thorax.
The former method is much easier and quicker and it provides as much infor-
mation as the latter. In addition, the errors of measurement tend to be
averaged out by drawing a smooth curve through the points. Furthermore,
when one has the distribution of potential at several levels around the thorax,
one has in hand a large part of the data necessary to obtain the horizontal
component of the resultant dipole moment of the heart.?® It is necessary only
to multiply the potential at each point on the thorax by a factor proportional
to the chest contour at that point and then to integrate the product around
the chest. The curve obtained by plotting potential against distance along
the chest has been calied the “chest-lead diagram.”® This type of display is
deservedly becoming more popular;*’** since time is fixed and “space” or dis-
tance is used as the variable.

By using a chest belt with a number of small electrodes (1 cm. diameter)
close together (FIGURE 19) and high amplification and resolution in the record-
ing equipment, it is often possible to obtain evidence of local excitation, or
additional dipole components, in the chest-lead diagrams.’®* Ficure 20 shows
the potential distributions around the chest of a normal male subject at the
mid-ventricular level for three different instants of time during the QRS com-
plex. The time 0.5 R would correspond to the peak of the R wave in lead 2.
Local excitation processes are shown by lack of smoothness of these curves or
by the presence of dips and peaks in the curves. The potential-gradient
curves are particularly sensitive to local processes. The bottom curves show
a marked second-dipole component.

From the tank data and from theoretical considerations one can say that, if

 

FIGURE 19. Electrode belt. The electrodes are chlorided silver, 1 cm. in diameter. The
spacing at the front is 2.5 cm. between centers.

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1045

+1.2-++.6 Potential Gradient E
Time=.I8R Potential V MV/cm.

  
 
 
 

TIME=.40R

   

RIGHT

    
   

_—

CO _ +30 —
0

  
 
 

+40 +50

around chest—CM,

 

Distanc

a

  

+1.5T+.3 Potential Grodient E

Potential V Mm¥ecm,
Time = |.OR mv,

 

FIGURE 20. Potential distribution around the thorax at the mid-ventricular level at 3
different instants of time (G. B. 10/7/51).


1046 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

there were only one dipole acting in the heart area, there could be only one
“positive” maximum and one “negative” maximum of potential on the thorax
wall, and that the variation of potential between any two points would be
continuous. The same conditions would hold for the variation of potential
around the thorax at any horizontal level. If such graphs are not smooth
curves, or if there is more than one potential maximum or minimum, then one
must conclude that the leads are recording the effects of more than 1 dipole.
Whether one observes one or more dipoles depends on the number, size, and
location of the electrodes; the amount of amplification used; the individual
being tested; and the instant of time during the cardiac cycle. I have found

   
     
  
 

Potential V
mv.
Right bundle-branch block
line g-40 msec ofter peak of
R-(Lead II)

Distance along chest-CM.

RIGHT LEFT

Figure 21. Potential distribution around the thorax at the mid-ventricular level of a
subject with right bundle-branch block. The presence of 2 simultaneous potential maxima
is indicative of 2 effective dipoles in the heart (E. P. 2/18/53).

that in the majority of cases one major dipole component can be observed. It
should be noted that the method of integrating the potential over the thorax®®
gives the resullant dipole regardless of whether or not local excitation processes
are observed in the chest leads.

FIGURE 21 shows the chest-lead diagram for a case of right bundle-branch
block at a time corresponding to 40 msec. after the peak of R in lead 2. The
presence of two positive and negative maxima indicates the presence of 2
effective dipoles. Presumably the excitation has spread into the right ven-
tricle and is also active in the left ventricle.

If data on the potential distribution over the thorax, displayed in other
ways,’ 4 are plotted by the method described in this paper, similar results are
obtained; that is, there is usually one major dipole, but evidence of additional
dipoles can occasionally be seen.

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1047

Summary

The distribution of potential around the boundary of a three-dimensional
electrolytic tank model of the human thorax at the level of the dipole center
is similar to the potential distribution around a similar flat tank if the vertical
angle of the dipole is within the range of 30°. Two-dimensional thorax
models can, therefore, provide information about the horizontal components
of heart excitation.

Using such a flat tank, an artificial dipole was set up in the heart area, and
potential distributions were measured for the following four cases: (1) an
insulating boundary having a homogeneous interior and shaped for the outline of
the thorax cross section; (2) insulating spine and sternum areas inserted, and
Jung sections having a resistivity four times that of the main body of elec-
trolyte; (3) the same as (2), except that the heart area was made more con-
ducting; and (4) the same as (2), except that the lung sections were made
completely insulating.

For each case, the potential and potential gradient along the periphery of the
model were plotted as a function of distance.

The effect of the highly conducting heart section was uniformly to scale down
potentials external to the heart. The effect of increasing the relative re-
sistivity of the lung sections depended on (1) the dipole angle, and (2) the
particular field point under consideration. It is not possible to make a general
statement about the effect of increased lung resistance since, for certain dipole
angles, the potential was increased at some points in the field and decreased at
others.

For any dipole angle, the differences between potentials on the outer bound-
ary for cases 1 and 2 were not large. The conductivity of the heart section
had a greater effect on the boundary potentials than did the conductivities of
the lungs, sternum, and spine sections. A much larger effect was found if the
lung sections were made completely insulating. The effect of inhomogeneous
areas on the potentials was greater in the interior of the section than on the
boundary.

For dipole angles of 0° to 60° the main peak of the potential-gradient curve
was opposite the center of the dipole. For a dipole angle of 90° the potential-
gradient curve on the boundary was diphasic, and the point of zero potential
gradient was opposite the dipole center.

Image systems were developed for sources and sinks in two media of finite
resistivities separated by straight-line and circular boundaries. For the latter,
four systems were required, depending on whether the source and sink were
inside or outside the circle, and whether potentials were required inside or
outside the circle. If we represent the heart area by a circle, the theory
showed that the effect of increased heart conductivity should cause the external
potentials to be reduced, uniformly, but that the endocardial potentials would
be changed in a complicated way. The image theory showed that increased
lung resistivity would also have a complicated effect on field potentials.

Tests with two dipoles showed that if both dipoles had the same center, the
external field distribution was equivalent to that produced by the resultant


1048 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

dipole. If one dipole was located in the left ventricular area and the other in
the right ventricular area, the effect of each dipole could usually be observed
on the anterior wall of the thorax section. These results indicate that vector-
cardiograms should be supplemented with chest leads in order to obtain as
complete information about the heart excitation as possible.

The external field of two half shells in the heart area in the thorax section
was very similar to that of the resultant dipole.

Since the thorax section was almost elliptical in shape, mathematical ex-
pressions were developed for the potential due to a source and sink inside an
ellipse. A much simpler equation resulted for potentials on the outer bound-
ary of the ellipse.

The distribution of potential araund the outer wall of the three-dimensional
thorax model was obtained at about twelve horizontal levels for all possible
spatial angles of the dipole at 30° intervals. By comparing similar human
thorax-potential distributions with the tank charts, a rapid estimate could be
made of the heart-vector orientation.

Since such distributions give the potential at all points on the thorax, they
make it possible, together with the limb leads, to test any system of vector-
cardiography. Equations are given for the projections of a spatial dipole in
terms of its absolute magnitude and of its horizontal and vertical angles.

Using a circumferential chest belt with small, closely spaced electrodes,
evidence of local excitation in the chest-lead diagram can often be seen. It is
pointed out that the amount of local-excitation effect recorded depends on the
size, number, and spacing of electrodes, on the recorder amplification, on the
individual studied, and on the instant of time during the cardiac cycle.

Acknowledgment

I am indebted to the late Samson Wright and to W. F. Floyd of the Physi-
ology Department, Middlesex Hospital Medical School, London, England, for
the frequent conversations that gave me an insight into certain aspects of
physiology that could have been acquired in no other way. Thanks are due
also to members of the staff of the Electrical Engineering Department, Imperial
College of Science, London, particularly to Willis Jackson and to Dennis
Gabor, Colin Cherry, and A. R. Boothroyd, and to Allan Gordon of the Mathe-
matics Department for advice on the problem of the ellipse. I also thank
Hans H. Hecht for his cooperation in more recent phases of the project.

References

1. NeLsoN, C. V. 1952. Electric field measurements in a two-dimensional conductivity-
tank model of the human heart and thorax. J. Physiol. 116: 15P.

. NELSON, C. V. 1955. The effect of the finite boundary on the potential distribution in
volume conductors. Circulation Research. 3: 236.

. HAGUE, B. 1929. Experimental methods for determining the distribution of electric
and magnetic fields. Electrician. 102: 185.

. BEWLEY, L. V. 1948. Two-dimensional Fields in Electrical Engineering. Macmil-
lan. New York, N.Y. |

. MCcFEE, R., R. M. Stow & F. D. JounstoN. 1952. Graphic representation of electro-
cardiographic leads by means of fluid mappers. Circulation. 6: 21.

. Bropy, D. A. & W. E. Romans. 1954. Validity of several types of vector-cardiographic

w= Ww No

wn

 

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

14.
15.
16.
17.

18.
19.
20.
2.

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1049

leads as tested on a two-dimensional model of the human body. J. Appl. Physiol.
: 745. }

Re L.N. Loss. (oT eming a new concept of the genesis of the electrocardiogram.
Am. Heart J. 13: 1/.

LEpESCHKIN, E. 1951. Modern Electrocardiography. : 55. Williams & Wilkins.
Baltimore, Md.

BurGER, H. C. & J. B. vAN MILAAN. 1943. Measurement of the specific resistance of
the human body to direct current. Acta Med. Scand. 114: 584.

LINDNER, E. & L. N. Karz. 1939. The relative conductivity of tissues in contact with
the heart. Am. J. Physiol. 126: 625.

Hess, W. 1935. Modellversuche iiber den Verlauf der Potentiallinien des Herzens im
transversalen Brustkorbquerschnitt. Z. Kreislaufforsch. 27: 433.

ScuAErFER, K. E. 1935. Versuche iiber neue Moglichkeiten, die Richtung der Aktion-
spole im Herzen zu bestimmen. Z. Kreislaufforsch. 27: 439.

NEeLson, C. V. & H. H. HEcut. 1955. Investigation of horizontal component of heart-
vector by means of circumferential chest leads at midventricular level. Federation
Proc. 14: 107.

LepescukiN, E. 1951. Modern Electrocardiography. : 49. Williams & Wilkins.
Baltimore, Md.

Frank, E. & C. F. Kay. 1953. A reference potential for unipolar electrocardiographic
measurements on models. Am. Heart J. 46: 195.

Suet, Y. 1940. Studies on the origin of the injury potential of muscle. Japan. J. Med.
Sci. III. 6: 293, 331.

KaurMmaN, W. & F. D. JounsToN. 1943. The electrical conductivity of the tissues near
the heart and its bearing on the distribution of the cardiac action currents. Am. Heart

. 26: 42.

one H. P. & F. C. Kay. 1956. The conductivity of living tissues. Ann. N. Y.
Acad. Sci. 66 (6): 1007.

BeLenrADEK, J. & A. K. M. Novons. 1923. L’électrocardiogramme du coeur perfusé
au glucose. Compt. rend. soc. biol. 88: 621.

StraUB, H. 1910. Zur Analyse des Elektrokardiogramms nach Versuchen am isolier-
ten Froschherzens. Z. Biol. 53: 499.

Karz, L. N., E. SiomaN, I. Gutman & F. H. Ocko. 1936. The effect of good electrical
conductors introduced near the heart on the electrocardiogram. Am. J. Physiol. 116:
343.

22a. BurceEr, H. C. & J. B. vaN MiLAAN. 1946. Heart vector and leads.Part I. Brit.

Heart J. 8: 157.

22b. BurGer, H. C. & J. B. vaN MiLaaN. 1947. Heart vector and leads.Part II. Brit.

Heart J. 9: 154.

22c. BURGER, H. C. & J. B. vAN MiLAAN. 1948. Heart vector and leads.Part III. Brit.

23.

24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.

Heart J. 10: 229.

Lewis, T. 1925. The Mechanism and Graphic Registration of the Heart Beat. The
duality of the normal electrocardiogram. : 104. Shaw & Sons. 3rd ed. London.
England.

RijLanT, P. 1933. L’oscillogramme cathodique du coeur humain. Compt. rend. soc.
biol. 114: 546.

Hacue, B. 1929. Electromagnetic Problems in Electrical Engineering. Oxford
Univ. Press. Oxford, England.

krress W. M. 1880. On the motion of two spheres in a fluid. Trans. Roy. Soc. 171:

Luprorp, G. S. S., J. MArRTINEK & G. C. K. YEH. 1955. The sphere theorem in po-
tential theory. Proc. Cambridge Phil. Soc. 51: 389.

Bisnor, G. H.” 1937. La théorie des circuits locaux permet-elle de prévoir la forme du
potential d’action? Arch. intern. physiol. 4b: 273.

Pruitt, R. D. & F. VALENCIA. 1948." The immediate electrocardiographic effects of
circumscribed myocardial injuries: an experimental study. Am. Heart J. 3b: 161.
Higks, W. M. 1881. On functional images in ellipses. Quart J. pure appl. Math. 17:
WEBER, Ernst. 1950. The Electromagnetic Field. 1. Mapping of Fields. Wiley.

New York, N. Y.

Frank, E., C. F. Kay, G. E. SEipEN & R. A. KEisMAN. 1955. A new quantitative
basis for electrocardiographic theory: the normal QRS complex. Circulation. 12: 400.

NELson, C. V. & H. H. HEcur. 1955. A test of the Einthoven triangle and a modi-
fication which corrects for the lateral eccentricity of the heart. Circulation. 12.752.


1050 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

34

35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.

42.

BUrGER, H. C., H. A. ToLHOEK & F. G. BACKBIER. 1954. The potential distributi
on the body surface caused by a heart vector. Am. Heart J. 48: 29 distribution

GABOR, D. & C. V. NELsoN. 1954. Determination of the resultant dipole of the h
from measurements on the body surface. J. Appl. Phys. 25: 413. eart

LepescHKIN, E. 1951. Modern Electrocardiography. : 83. Williams & Wilkins

Baltimore, Md.
BonNING, A., L. N. Katz & R. LANGENDORF. 1941. The distribution of surface
tential on the Shest in Intrerenizichiar block. Am. Heart J. 22: 778. po-
Simonson, E. 1952. e distribution of cardiac potentials around th :
normal men. Circulation. 6: 201. nd the chest in 103
Girimany, H. 1952. Differenzierung der formgestaltenden Krifte d :
Brustwandableitungen. Cardiologia. 20: 314. alte der unipolaren
OsHER, H. L. & L. Worrr. 1953. Electrocardiographic pattern simulati
Ce Med, Sci 226: 541. PIED mulating acute myo-
Sikanp, R. S., A. Mauro & L. H. Nanum. 1952. Instantaneous distribution of th
electrocardiographic potential on the body surface of the normal on 0] tie
interval. J. Appl. Physiol. 4: 916. al man during the T
NeLsoN, C. V., R. L. LANGE, H. H. HECHT, R. P. CARLISLE & A. S. Ruy. 1956. Eff
of intracardiac blood and of fluids of different conductiviti : £01
surface vectors. Circulation. 14: 977. les on the magnitude of


