In the long run, the various social scientists in New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them. But it takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers in
any field are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech—
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic details of its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed in our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using computers
in social science Egg, we will have to use a team: a man who knows
the field plus a man who knows the machine.

Need for a Research Staff in Machine Utilization, an
Ingredient in the Team

This last ingredient is the part which is left out of
the contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-
time staff of enthusiastic machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do its tricks and to Join with
research workers who come with a "gleam in their eye", forming
teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's capabilities
in research. This staff will be hard, but not impossible, to
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chiefly‘toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant of $35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the partici-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun to make
contact with those students who are interested in machine utiliza-
tion" There are about two dozen IBM research assistants appointed
for this year, We should be able to pick from the best of these a
few who would like to stay on for two or three years more, after.
they have obtained their advanced degrees in engineering, mathe-
matics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potential
members of research teams‘

Budget for the Social Sciences

To make up 3
problems as well as the

four or five good men:
11

   
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
    
 
   
 
 
   

which could handle the social science
cal science ones would need another
ran men plus the technicians to back
“ travel and inc: ontal supplies
and equipment, appr ,000 a year for three years” It
would take about t‘ ‘ rolling and the developments
should be review r as fears, to see where to go
next. Su«. 2 st‘ ‘ sortant dur mg the beginning
stages c r comput when the probn
lens are r omen n er partner in
the team 3 as. ’ , when some of
the more have been de trated, the
resear jects, each vi a definite goal
w include par support for the
eventuall” he Center could

 

them up, plus a sma