4.

data would help this work as well as others. Another promising
direction of investigation is in the application of machine tech-
niques to library inventorying, cataloging and record-keeping.
Although special-purpose machines will probably be required in the
end, many ldeas and procedures can be developed and checked out on
the general-purpose machine at the Center with the addition, per-
haps,. of some specially built input and output equipment. The
staff of the MIT Library is interested in this work and will con-
fribute its knowledge to its progress. | :

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, -in part
because the least Investigated up till now, is in the field of
soclal science experiments, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referee. Tactical situations in warfare are
already being studied by "gaming techniques" at Rand and in other
mllitary operations research groups. Similar problems in various
fields of the social sciences can alsoc be studied by simplifying
the situation down to some sort of "game", with more or less com-
plicated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators, to
see what the consequences are of various strategies., If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to somé actual social sltuation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require a
great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that only
by the use of computing machines can the scoring be 8peeded up
sufficiently so that enough ganmes can be run through to provide
an over-all grasp of the situation under study. Such “"gaming
techniques" are closely related to the experiments of Bavelas on
The behavior of task-oriented groups. The use of a properly pro-
grammed computer would provide such experiments with a powerful
and flexible means of changing, contrelling, and analyzing these
experiments in soclal psychology. In this field we could work 4in
close collaboration with the Center for Internstional Studies at
MIT and with the psychology departments in several other colleges.

Suggested Guidance for the Research
e e et e WAV b S L3

. The research activities of the Computation Center are
guided and coordinated by an Advisory Committee consisting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges, each
chosen by the president of his college. Thiz Committee provides
over-all policy guidance in all activities. But %o guide the work
in soclal scilence outlined above, we will need another, more spe-
cilalized group. If financial support for this actlivity is forth-
comlng, about s8ix top-flight social scientizts from the participating
Institutions will be invited to join a special advisory committee,
to talk over possible lines of research with the Center staff, to
help find those social scientists with "gleams in their eyez" re-
.garding machine utilization in their fleld, to help arrange the
formation of teams for the pursuit of the suggested research and
to gdvise on rélative priorities, if and when there is more work
to be done than there 1s machine time available. :