/ THE UNITVERSITY OF CHICAGO
CHICAGO 37 » ILLINOIS

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS

26 December 1956

Professor Philip M. Morse

Department of Physics

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Mass.

Dear Professor Morse,

Our work im developing a code for use with the Whirlwind for computing
the 2-center Interelectronic repulsion exchange integrals

fe AT JET) e%/r Xa' (2) Xp! (3) dvydv,
has reached the point where these integrals can now be accurately
computed for probably any combination of 1- and 2-quantum atomic
orbitals x, xt, x¥t, xy" (a and b are the 3 centers). The work during
recent months has been in the hands of Mr. Philip Merryman. He is
now here, but will be ready shortly to return to M.I.T. wheee we hope

he can complete testing the code and compute values of specific
integrals.

Some testing, checking, and minor revision is still needed in order

to make the code operable, and to determine its reliability and accuracy,
in the complete range of parameter values.. Also, a minor revision

of the code should be made to take advantage of the increased fast

memory now avalilable- it is estimated that this will reduce the time

fo compute an integral by at least 30 percent. I think we have used
about 25 hours of the total time of 35 hours which you so kindly

granted us. If the remaining 10 hours is still available we believe

this should be ample for the comtemplated checking and minor revisions.

We are then faced with an urgent need for additional time for the
actual computation of particular values of integrals to be used in
determirly best LCAO-MO wave functions, and properties derivable there-
from, £ér a series of diatomic molecules (first Li,, Ben, Co, No,

Op, Fp or some of these; and AH, where A is a FAPRE Pow atom; then
BeO, LiF, and other heteropolars). The indicated calculations are
part of our program under a grant from the National Science Founda -
tion. A conservative estimate of the running time needed to [hotain
the exchange integrals needed for the most important molecules on

the above #program is 60 additional hours on Whirlwind.

Professor Roothaan and I would like therefore to make a request for
up to 60 hours of Whirlwind time between now and about June 1 for
computing values of specific integrals. Some of our specific
values will probably be useful to John Slater too, and will of
course be avallable to him. In view of the relatively large amount
of time involved, we would feel that we should contribute as much
as possible To the cost. Our National Science Foundation grantg
includes about $25,000 for computer time, but this is for a three-
year period, so we ought not to use more than $8,000 this year,


(Page 2, Ltr. Mulliken to Morse, dtd 26 Dec 56)

especially since part of what is available will probably be needed
for computations elsewhere. We do also have free computer time

at Wright Field which can be used for machine computations on other
types of integrals and for other computations necessary in our
molecular calculations, but unfortunately it is not practicable to
transfer the Whirlwind exchange integrals code there.

In brief, we would like to request for use between now and about
June 1, (1) confirmation of free Time of about 10 hours which we
hope still remains from our previous allotment; the time so used
can be justified, I believe, in terms of John Slater's interest
in perfecting the existing code and increasing its speed; (2) an
additional 60 hours, for which we can make a contribution up to
$7,600 or perhaps $8,000.

To the extent that you can accelerate your reply to our request
we shall be deeply grateful.

With best wishes for the New Year,

Sincerely,

Toba Nl life.

R. S. Mulliken

ces Prat. I. BL Slater

RSM:1d


