April 13, 1959

Academician 5. A. Lebedev, Director
Computation Center

Academy of Sciences

Moscow

U. S. S. R.

Dear Academician Lebedev:

Since last September I have, as you can see, become Director of the Research
Computation Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,. We
will have as our computer to use the Univac 1105, an equipment similar to

the two which are now being used by the Bureau of Census in Washingtion to
process the 1960 U, 5. Census., It has over 8, 000 words of magnetic core
storage, 32,000 words of drum storage, and 17 Uniservo tape units,

We plan to have a Summer Conference on Frontier Research in Digital
Computers from August 17-28 here in Chapel Hill, similar to the one held
last year in Ann Arbor. I am enclosing a copy of the announcement. After
this, the Association for Computing Machinery is to have its National Meeting
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, September 1, 2, and 3.

I have written invitations to Dr. Ershov and Professor Kantorovich, copies

of which are enclosed, inviting them to give each a series of ten lectures at

the Conference, in the same fashion that your colleagues did last year at

Ann Arbor, under a similar agreement. After these lectures, Professor Perlis
and I would be pleased to have them go with us to Cambridge.

Unfortunately our conference here, because we, like Moscow State University,
do not have an electrical engineering curriculum here, but rather at Raleigh,

28 miles away, is not planned to have courses aimed at the design and con-
struction of actual hardware. I do not feel able therefore to invite any lecturers
from your group on circuitry or design. However, if you yourself, for example,
should be interested in coming and giving one or more lectures on the general
structure of digital computers in the Soviet Union, we would be very pleased.

These lectures, of course, are based as beiore on the agreements on exchange
of persons between the U. 8. A. and U. 5. 5. R., and we would expect that a
similar invitation would be issued to a corresponding number of U. 5. computer
scientists to visit your establishments and lecture to your or similar groups.

I have talked to Bea Mittman of Armour Research Foundation in Chicago, who