lay 13, 1959

Dr. Richard H. Kill

Assietant Direotor

lestern Data Processing Center
University at California

Los Angeles 24, California

Dear Dr. Bill:

 

Last su-er when I was at Endioott at the In! Conference
{or Directors o! University Colputing Centers, I one asked to do
echo thinking about organising further Isotinge of Directors of
these Centers and, in tact, whether it would be appropriate for
ouch Directors to organise the-selves into a formal or internal
society. I have hesitated for sole tile as to what action is
apyropriate, partly because I an nildly opposed to proliferating
additional societies or conventions and, partly because I have been
extreesly busy this year. It was, however. suggested that a nesting
e: people interested in this general iield night be arranged either
hetero or otter the AC! nesting here this tell. A recent talk with
the local Progren Couittee for this leeting, however, discouraged
this action and I an eolewhat at a less as to where to go next.
Consequently, I an writing tor your advice.

It is periectly true that the Directors of university
conputing centers have problem which are not touched on in the
present AC! Ieetings or in other coaputer leetinge. They are, of
course, sore in the nature or adlinistrative problem. although
these certainly can be real. Whether they could be helped by
having occasional aeetings at which these proble-s can be discussed
or whether they can be taken care of adequately by internal discua—
eion at neetings such as the Ann, I on not sure. It is possible, if
only occasional neetings sand be useful, that the National Science
Foundation would be willing to be or ﬁnancial help. What is needed,
however, is sole indication from you who are directing university
conputing centers as to the need for such a. neeting and the poesible
agenda, if it is needed. There is to be an Eastern Colputer Conference
in Cenbridge later in the year. This meeting could be scheduled
near it, it such action seemed appropriate. 0n the other hand, there
nay be advantages in meetings separate tron such large convocation

at acne quiet spot where we could talk things over at leisure. Or.
at course, we should not neet at all.


Dr. 3. ll. mu

I will be my:
lure, the topic will can
your (an-nat- on this can.
reach I. heron Jun. 15.

I’m/b!

lay 18. 1959

an» Inn 001110ch in an. Inn". 1 u-
up again. ‘ .1 would «runny lynx-ooh“
n: question. particularly 1: they: on

ﬂuently,

Philip I. Iona, Director


