In order to make the Center more useful to us I have two
recommendations., First of all we should bring to bear whatever
pressure we can o upgrade the status of research applications
in the Center, I have the suspiclon that the dominant
“computational requirement of many other Departments is also
that of research. Consequently I feel that as long as the
present computational capaclty imbalance exists between Center
- and Departments, such pressure is not unreasonable,

Secondly, I feel that we should recommend that the Center
explore policies other Than its present ones in meeting the
dilemma c¢f excessive demand. There 1s a natural tendency in
the face of such a demand to require 100% efficiency in the use
of the machine, Thls tendency is effective only up to a point.
I remember Columbus Iselin's comment regarding efficient use
of cceanographic vessels., He sald that as soon as the ships
began running the scientists the research deterlorated.

Another result of the excesslve demand is the institution of

the quota system with blanket reductions in allowed Time
according to over-requests., This 18 an undesirable and temporary
arrangement.,. It 1s undesirable since the most productlive period
of most computational research efforts cccurs toward the end,

and 1t is temperary because increasing demand wlll eventually
result in proportional reduction giving no one adequate computer
tims. The more desirable alternative is to be increasingly
selectlve in allowing computer problems to begin, and to give
those selected adequate time, I do not believe the Computational
Center is qualified to make such selectlon intelllgently, at
least wlth respect to research problems., This, I believe, is
more properly a function of the separate Departments.

Therefore I feel strongly that the Computation Center should,
in the very near future, begin apportioning computer time In
blocks %o Departments and not to individuals, at least for research
applications. Computer committees within each Department could
then intelligently examine thelr computational needs and divide
up their allotted time much more equitably with respect to research
programs and individual needs than is possible by a small
Computational Center committee trying to do the same thing for
the entire school. Actually the Center should be happy to be
relieved of thils detailed responsibllity. Thelir applications
committee would then - have the task of setting Departmental quotas
on the basis of Departmental requests, each presented as a unit
from the Departmental commlttee,

As for our support of Center growth, we should help them to
the extent of -our interests, which in turn depends on the status
of our own computer facility ambitions, and the willingness of
the Center toaccomaodate themselves to our needs. Such help
might take the form of actlve support of fund raising campalgns
by making available documents detailing the needs for Earth Sclence
computation, and by other activities to influence National Foundatlon
grants. I would also recommend that the Center approach a variety
of computer companies to see what they might have to offer, since
the enormous prestige and publicity assoclated with such an
installation must be coveted by many first rate computer manufacturing

VI 1T
580 ‘J.i.) 3 o