Qutline

J. General Description of the Center | -

A. History:

Be

Ce

De

Fe

Organizationt Outline of bread

Announcement by IEM of machine and terms
::pgz:%iohaglo re;earch, free rent, installation

r*t, and use for N.,8 Colleges and Univ,
Jan, 1856)99 | P £ 1
History of MIT in computing with Wlirlwind and

switbh-over in Summer 1957,

e

Became member of SHARE organization.

Computer time arrangements ./ ;|

| administrative areas,
and roles of Morse, Arden, Verzuh, and Corbato.
Continued interest of IBM and role of Hunter
and his successor Blackburn. Role of Applied
Seience Research (ASR) for IBM. A

Rquipment an¢ﬁFacilit1eat quarters in K.T. Gogﬁton Labk.

conpistimg of offices, conference rooms, classroom
derkroom, document room for conputer-referenée work,
204 computer consisting of (brief listoef equip)
which will be épepating around early Lay 1957

Operation of the Centerf{intenddd): 7 shifts 1n~qhunku

for quick access to computer. MIT and XE times

to be zeparated by bookkeeping only. Open=shop
programeing. FProfessional operators for actual
running of programs., Self-service for key-punching
and \ » card processing before
computer input. Center will supply professional
card-handljng service to projects which will
support such service.

¥ew Zngland Colleges and Universities Cooperative Frogram

including wmest of N.i. Colleges which will have
sccess to the Center facilities, Lkason by

the Instlitutional Representatives. (Give list
of schools and Represéntatives)

I.B<Ms Research Appoirtment Frogram

Asszistants égenerally graduate students}, and
Associates (generally junior faculty members)

of ¥.I.T, and N.E. Colleges are appbinted ==z by
the Center with funds given by I.B.Me N.E. Appoint-
ments made by Institutional Advisory Group eackdf?)
(x=x a sub-set of the Inst. Reps.). ¥IT appbintments

made by MIT Machine Committee. Appbihhnés j &I“
s AT : {

supervised by faculty ad71BOE§JWIn§t.WR§p§ﬁ{M,
xR% or Mach, Comm. Members, (2t their schools or
Depts, At the Center by Corbato. Purposes
education and research in computer applications,