il.

Ill.

Iv.

VIi.

ViI.

 

Problem No. 2 - Design of Punched Card System to Handle

Business Data Processing Work at the Eastern Joint Computer
Conference

This problem teaches the importance of overall flow
charts ; the design of suitable IEM card layout Zorms, the
preparation of accurate instructions for machine operating
personnel, and the egtimation of the personnel and machine time

. required to»handle the registration for 2,000 attendees at the

conference.

Problem No. 3 - The Solution of a First Order Differential
Equation on the Type 650 Magnetic Drum Calculator

The student is given a block diagram of a 650 program - -
used to solve an ordinary differential equation using fourthe
order Runge~Kutta formulae. As part of the assignment, the -
student prepares the actual coding of the 650 preogram using
basic language, prepares a test solution for this program,
computes a few check points, debugs his program on the 650,
and finally carries out the solution of this problem on the
machine. After completing this particular experiment, the
student has a very intimate knowledge of the G850 machine.

Solution of an Ordinary Differential Equation on the 650

The student solves the identical problem stated in the
preceding section using the Card Programmed Calculator. This
teaches them the difference between the internally-stored program
features of the 650 and the card-programmed characteristics of
the Caxrd Programmed Calculator.

Evalugtion of the Roots of a 98 degree Polynomial

A 650 program using the NOPI system was'prepared which
evaluates the roots of the polynomlal using Hitchcock's method.

Computation of the Actuarial Life Incurance Tesbles

Since a high degree 0f accuracy in this computation was
needed, the basic 650 language was modified to perform 20-digit
arithmetic in the solution of this problem.

 

Inversion of Matrices uging Modified Elimination Procedure

A basic 650 program was prepared which automatically
includes a 'pivotal-condensation' technique. This program
correctly handles matyices which have zero elements on the
Bein diagonzal.