Commanding Officer > 2= March 25, 1955
Office of Naval Research
Boston, Massachusetts

in view of charges being made for the use of other large
computers it 1e considered the rates set forth in 2 (a) and
(b) abeve sre commletely equitable for use until such time
as the necessary cost data becomes available for study and
redetermination of the rates is in order.

L4, All vroblems, (5, 7, 8 =nd 9 below), eoing on the Whirlwind
Commter, (except those of the Lincoln Laboratory), will be
avoroved by M.I.T.'s committee on Vachine Methode of Computation.

5. Projects connected with VM.I.T.=ONR contracts will no% be
charged for use of commuter time.

6, N§ chargee will be made to the Lincoln Laboratory for its
use of the Whirlwind Comvuter.

7. Ae soon as vossible btut in no event later than July 1, 1955
all other smonsored M.I.T. research nrograms will pay for use
of the Whirlwind Computer in accordance with the rate schedule
as set forth in 2 (a) and (b) abeve. It is recogniged that all
gsuch enonsored reséarch projecte may require some months to
obtein appropriations in their budgets for computer time while
it 1s definitely in the best interests of all concerned to
carry out their nrograms on Whirlwind.

8. Projects undertaken for outside snonsors, including ONR
prime contractors, will pay the established rates for use of
the computer. It is the intention of the Committee on Machine
Computation that such nrojects be kent at a minimum,

9, It is recognized that the computer will contimme to be used
for research in coding technioues, thesis work, class exercises,
demonstrations and educational projects in accordance with the
philesonhy so fundamental to the contimuance of such & contract
as NSori-06001., Cests for such work will be borm directly under
this contract.

10. A1l exvenses incurred in comnection with Whirlwind cperations
under 5, 7 and 8 above will be charged against contract N5ori-06001
and 211 monies collected for the use of the computer will be credited
back to this contract.

11. ».I.T. will eubmit monthly fiscal remorts to ONR indicating
the mamber of hours of Whirlwind time which have been charged to
orojects and the credits which have acocrued to Contract NSori-06001.

12. Regular nroject remorts under Contract N5ori-06001 will contimue
to nrovide information regarding all work carried out on the Whirlwind
Commuter so that ONR will be completely informed concerning the
project activities.