covalent bond is reduced from the value it has whf:n t;he
tetrahedral-site bonds are ionic. A serr.uquantltatlvle
estimate of the proportionate reductiop in octahedral-
site covalent-bond strength due to snn.ultaneous co-
valence in the tetrahedral sites is given later 1In
Appendix I and Fig. 6.

C. Cation Hybrid Orbitals

There are three kinds of cation hybrid orbitals whlc.h
are important in the spinel lattice \yhere the steric
constraints are due to the close packing a!)out elthc?r
tetrahedral or octahedral interstices. If either steric
hindrance or too large differences in el.ectro.neg.atmtles
prevent hybrid covalent-bond formation, 10nic bonds
are formed. The important cation hybrid orl?ltals have
tetrahedral, octahedral, or square configurations.

1. Teirahedral Orbilals

The tetrahedral orbitals result from the hybridization
of (sp*) orbitals.!” These point toward the four corners
of a tetrahedron. They are predominantly formed in
cations with a full d shell which is separated in energy by
only a small interval from the next empty s and p shells.
Tetrahedral coordination is common for Zn'* and Cd",
for instance. The strength of these covalent bonds de-
creases with increasing atomic number of the cation and
decreasing atomic number of the anion in any one
column of the periodic table.

There is some evidence that Fe** and Mn?*, each
with a half-full, spherically symmetric d shell, form
bonds which are partially covalent. Although these ions
form ionic bonds in Fe,O3 and MnO, the wurtzite struc-
ture of one phase of MnS indicates that the possibility of
covalent-bond formation is by no means negligible. In
the tetrahedral sites of the spinel lattice, where the
steric constraints favor the formation of tetrahedral
covalent bonds, these ions undoubtedly form bonds with
a partially covalent character. Evidence for this lies not
only in the fact that the ferrospinels are frequently
inverse, with a definite tendency for Fe''! ions to go
into the tetrahedral sites, but also in the observation
that inverse ferrospinels have a lattice parameter which
is roughly 0.06 A smaller than would be expected if the
lattice were normal.” This reduction in lattice parameter
could be due to a shorter cation-anion bond for Fel! in
the tetrahedral sites than Fe** in the octahedral sites,
the difference in bond length indicating the degree of
covalence in the tetrahedral bonds.

 

2. Octahedral Orbitals

The octahedral, hybrid (d%®) orbitals occur in the
transition elements which have partially filled d shells.
In this case six bonds are directed toward the centers of
six faces of a cube. These bonds are not easily identified
since they are accommodated, without distortion, in an
octahedral site just as are ions which form predomin-
antly ionic bonds. These bonds would form most readily

L1l
394 J BE GOODENOUGH AND A.

 

— S

OEB

i ‘ outer configuration d® or dS, If gy
?bout‘ leul(:;:r:)v;t?oi%guration d® forms an ionic bond ip
i }(: dral site, it contributes 4.90 Bohr mag.
= OCtat ethe magx,letic susceptibility whereas it cop-
Itlg;olises s paramagnetic moment if it is bound co-
valently.l” The bond canpot be partlz}lly lonic and
partially covalent since this w.ould require rr'm.(mg t}&ro
states of different electron Spin. In complex ions like
[Fe(CN)sJ* the Fe!! forms cov:alent bonds, but in the
oxides the large electronegativity (;f the_ox)’gerl}lions
causes Fe*+ to form ionic bonds. .In d® 1ons lll?e Cr aqd
VI however, there is no spin chax}ge imvolved in
changing from ionic to covalent bondmg so that par-
tially covalent bonds can be formed Wthh' cannot he
distinguished from ionic bonds by magnetic rp§asurF-
ments. It is probable that these lons are stablllzec} in
the octahedral sites by partial covalent-bond formation.

3. Square Orbilals

Finally there are the square, coplanar (dsp?) orb‘itals
which point toward the four corners of a square. These
occur in the transition elements that have one d
orbital available for hybridization, such as cations with
outer electron configuration d*, d®, or d°. Cations which
form square, covalent bonds can be accommodated in
an octahedral site.

The cation Cu'! is known to form square bonds in
complex ions,'® cupric oxide,” and cupric salts.”
Although the Cu'! cation may, theoretically, form either
four tetrahedral (sp®) orbitals or four square (dsp?)
orbitals, the square-bond formation in CuO clearly
indicates that the latter bond type is the more stable
bond for Cu'! in an oxide lattice. Therefore the Cu'!
cation is more stable in the octahedral sites of the
spinel lattice where the steric constraints favor the
formation of square bonds.

Since cations with the outer electron configuration d®
can accommodate at most only ten additional electrons
in a hybrid dsp shell, their maximum coordination num-
ber is five. Therefore they cannot form octahedral
(@*sp*) bonds since this would require exciting two
electrons to some higher energy level. Since there are
two vacancies in the d shell, square (dsp?) orbitals can
be formed. In order to hybridize such orbitals, however,
the cation must reverse one electron spin to reduce its
paramagnetic moment to zero. There are many nickel,
palladium, and platinum complexes,'”! such as
[Ni(CN)4*-, which are both coplanar and diamagnetic.
It is significant that in their cyanide complexes Ni'! has
coordination number four whereas Fe!! and Fe!l! have
coordination number six. Because an electron spin is
reversed when d* cations form covalent bonds, the bonds
these; cations form are either covalent or ionic, but never
a mixture of the two. Since NiO has the rock-salt

*D. P. Mellor and D. P. Craig, Proc. Roy. Soc. (N. S. Wales)
75, 27 (1941). and D. P. Craig, Proc. Roy. Soc. (N.
"A. F. Wells, St

: ructural Inorganic Chemistry (Oxford Univer
sity Press, | § wsiry (

«ondon, 1950), second edition.

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 395

structure with the Ni** electrovalently bonded, it may
be assumed that Ni** forms electrovalent bonds in the
oxides with the spinel structure. The large difference
in electronegativities between nickel and oxygen is the
decisive factor favoring ionic-bond formation. Palla-
dium, however, is less electropositive than nickel and
does form square bonds in PdO. If Pd' were in a spinel,
it should form square bonds in the octahedral sites.
Cations with the outer electron configuration @*, such
as Mn®*, can hybridize empty (dsp?) orbitals for coor-
dinate covalence without altering their paramagnetic
moment. Since it would require energy to reverse an
electron spin to form (d2sp?®) orbitals, the square bond is
the most stable covalent-bond configuration. These ions
can be accommodated in octahedral sites with the
formation of partially or completely covalent bonds.

D. Summary

In Table IT there is a summary of the covalent-bond
strengths and the cation distributions favored by the
covalent forces. The strength estimates depend, of
course, upon the relative sizes of the cations and the
interstices. They also depend upon the electro-
negativity difference between the anions and the
cations. Finally, they depend upon the strength
of the covalent bond in the opposite set of lattice sites.
If a bond cannot be partially covalent, covalent effects
have no influence unless the bond is completely
covalent. If such a bond is marked “weak’ in Table II
it means it has a small chance of being completely
covalent. If such a covalent bond is formed, however,
its influence is strong.

 

   

As a rule of thumb, it is suggested that the covalent
forces be considered first in any prediction of the cation
distribution in a spinel lattice. If these are weak, the
energy term E, may be neglected and the Madelung
energy and geometrical considerations of Verwey and his
co-workers may be used. If the covalent forces are
moderate or strong, these are usually the predomin-
ant ordering influence. With such a simple, qualitative
rule, all of the observed structures given in Table I,
except Co(CoSn)Oy, can be predicted. Since the Made-
lung energy strongly favors the observed structure in
Co(CoSn)Oy, it is concluded that the covalent forces,
which are weaker in this instance than when associated
with any of the other Group IV cations, are not suffi-
ciently strong to reverse the order.

Mg.GeO4 and MgSiO4 have the olivine structure. The
olivine structure may be described either as an assembly
of [GeO,4J or [SiO4]¢ groups with the Mg+ ions
between them, or as an infinite array of approximately
close-packed oxygen ions with Ge!V or Si'V in tetra-
hedral and Mg?** in octahedral interstices. This structure
is analogous to the spinel. It differs, however, in that the
tetrahedral bonding is so much stronger than the octa-
hedral bonds that the cubic close packing of the oxygen
lons is distorted.

The phenacite structure, which is formed by Zn,SiOy,
has a tetrahedral coordination about both the Zn'! and
the Si'V cations. The Si—O and Zn—O covalent bonds
are apparently sufficiently strong to force all the cations
into tetrahedral sites and distort the oxygen lattice
from close packing.

\
\\
a(1+L) \ = 7
A
JZa (1+€') / I
>
3 ax
D
.=
—~—— /th'S O(|+£)

L Fe?®* Mn?*in B siTE
Fe3*, Mn%* N B sITe
Fe3* Mn2%*IN A SITE

@ 0%

A ol
LEGEND: JZa (1-€) T e —=—= 1
Aa
J

A=c/a "
Xvieha ‘”

F1G6. 1. Tonic model of distortion to tetragonal symmetry due to ordering of B-site ions.