(NTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES cORPORATION

363 THIRD sTREET CAME RIDGE AERC SETS NIVERSITY 4-6990

 

June 1; 1957

Professor p. M. Morse

Room

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
77 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge; Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

This refers to ou! conversation today concerning the invitation
from Mr. D. H. Lawrence, IBM Poughkeepsie to have MIT participate in @
704 computation seminar to P€ held in Endicott August 26 ~ 30, 1957. The
seminar will consist of papers prepared by customers on programm ng and
technical applications of the 704

Following is @ partial list of agencies who have been invited to
give paperss many of whom have already accepted.

Lockheed

Rocket dyne

Los Alamos

Douglas Aircraft

Douglas Missile

North American Aviation
University of Michigan
Westinghouse

University of California
G. L. Martin

RCA Laboratories

NACA

Boeind

Westinghouse

Custiss = Wright

Allison Division of Ford
General Electric

Naval Ordnance

Chance = Vought Aircraft

 

WORLD YE ADQUARTERS 590 MADISON

 

epHONE PLAZA 53-1900


Professor P. M. Morse June ll, 1957
Page 2.

Titles of papers vary from specific programming and coding
problems to numerical analysis. In other words, anything you wish to pre-
sent will be of interest to the group.

Attendance is limited to seventy. Housing and meals will be
supplied by IBM at Homestead.

Initially mimeographed copies of all papers will be distributed
to all those in attendance. A little later it is expected that a bound volume
(either cloth or paper) will be published and be made available for general
distribution to IBM and to customers.

We would be particularly pleased to have MIT participate by
presenting one or perhaps two papers. Please let me know as soon as possi=-
ble to what extent you will participate. | need to send the names and titles
to Mr. Lawrence right away. Mr. Lawrence would like to receive copies
of manuscripts directly from authors by July 15.

Sincerely,

“F. Blackburn

  

JFB/eta

cc:
Dr. F. M. Verzuh, Massachusetts Institute of Technology


