gam

Cx 2 . (= Estos { 3 fic " ’ |

June 27, 1958

Dr. F. M. Verzuh
Room 26-142

Dear Dr. Verzuh:

This is in reference to your letter dated June 26 concerning
the hiring of an additional 704 operator.

Upon reviewing the records, I see that we are paying for
one machine operator and one key punch operator for the New
participation under Paragraph 18 of the contract. This has been in
effect since December of 1957. According to the contract, when the
utilization of the 704 by the other New England colleges approaches a
maximum of seven hours per day then IBM may agree to reimburse
MIT for the salaries of two machine operators and one key punch
operator. I feel that until the usage of the Computation Center by the
New England colleges can be shown to have reached something near
this maxinsam amount, that we would not be justified under the terms
of the contract in authorizing you to bill us for the salary of an
additional machine operator.

 

At such time as you at MIT feel that the demand for the
Computation Center has reached the point where an additional ghiit
is necessary, then, under the terms of the conmiract, i think that we
could justify authorizing yourbilling us for the salary of one additional
machine operator.

For the time being, there is a substantial amount of what
would normally be idle time on the IBM shift and this time is being
made available to MIT and New England colleges in accordance with
aur mutual understanding that additional time on our shift is available
to you and MIT idle time is available to us. When we reach a point
where idle time on the IBM shift is not sufficient to take care of the


Dr. F. M. Verzuh “gw June 27, 1958

overflow from your shift, I am sure that you will want to go to three
shift operation.

him. Requests or situations that are not covered in the contract will
be handled by Dr. Johanson or, if he feels it necessary, will be
referred to Dr. M. A, Shader.

Iam sorry that I missed you on my vieit to MIT today
but look forward to seeing you some time in the near future.

Sincerely yours,

J. F. Blackburn
University and Research

Institute Representative
J¥B/jeh Sc
rs

cc: Prof. P. M. Mo \
Dr. R. N. Johanson

 

|
|
|
|
|


