Fo

View of the machine area in the Computation Center. In the foreground from right to left are tabulator unit
trol board, and cathode ray visual output. In the background are the magnetic tape units and the “off

eaching Machines to R

Computers can count, and can store and c
But man must program and direct the mac
to take advantage of its lightning-speed

VISI'I'()RS to the new Karl Taylor Compton Labora-
tories building seem to like to pause for a moment to
look through the “store front” windows separating
the first-floor corridor from the reception room and
operating area of the new Computation Center which
houses the various units of the recently installed
[.LB.M. 704 digital computer, made by the Interna-
tional Business Machines Corporation. Most days the
scene in the air-conditioned interior displays activity,
if not hectic animation. In the reception area nearest
the corridor a half-dozen or more students and Fac-
ulty members will be dispersed, some hastily check-
ing over operating instructions for the problem they
wish the machine to solve, some poring over an-
swers the machine has printed out on standard 15-
inch wide report sheets, some awaiting their turn to
use the computer, and some talking to colleagues or
to a member of the Center staft.

Beyond the plush-cord line dividing the reception
area from the operating area, the visitor can see the
machine operator inserting decks of instruction cards
in the card input unit or pushing buttons in response
to the dancing red lights on the control console.
Often the person whose problem is being run will be

by PHIL

watching the lines of printed results
from the tabulation unit, eager to se
or dejectedly scanning evidence that
gone wrong with the program. In th
behind the card and tabulator units, ¢
magnetic tape units. In some units
spinning, either to feed more data or i
the machine or to record results. In o
reels are being changed by an assista
far left corner another group may be
“off-line-printer” transcribe from a tap
an earlier run.

Pushing through the door to the i
it he wins approval of the receptionis
visitor will perceive that the activity
noisy; voices do not have to be raise
conversational level except on occas
“on-line-printer” is particularly activi
aware of the faint hiss of the air condit
not-so-taint whir of the magnetic drum
one acquainted with the deatening r
other computer installations will be
pleased at the comparative quiet he
came not by chance. Each unit in a mo