MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASSACHUSETTS

November 1, 1954

Professor P. M. Morse
Department of Physics
6-107

Dear Phil:

I find that my group has been using Whirlwind an average of 5 hours
per week for the last year. The best estimate which we can make indicates
that we shall be making the same average use for the coming year. This es-
timate is based on rather detailed consideration of what each man will be doing.

Therefore I request a Credit Allowance of 5 hours per week during
the coming year for this project. As far as I know now, there are no outside
sources of funds for the project, though I shall explore possibilities of future
support.

As for the value of the project, I think you are acquainted with its gen-
eral nature. The boys are getting extremely enthusiastic over the possibilities
of getting really good approximations to solutions of Schrodinger!s equation for
molecules and solids. It certainly seems as if digital computers were the best
hope of the future for solving wave mechanics, and therefore for approaching
a really quantitative theory of atoms, molecules, and solids. Much of the work
is still exploratory, trying to find what sorts of calculations can be made, but
even now we are getting results of definite practical importance, and we can
look forward to many more such results in the future, in such problems as the
detailed nature of energy bands, energy levels for impurities, and such things.
The experimenters are definitely ahead of theory at present with such questions,
and are desperately anxious for any theoretical help which we can give them.

There is one point worth considering regarding Whirlwind. I gather
from the discussions I hear that, on account of the short word length of Whirl-
wind as compared to most other machines, it takes considerably longer to carry
through a calculation on Whirlwind than it would on many of the other machines.
If in the future Whirlwind were to be replaced by a machine of greater word
length, it is likely that we could accomplish the same program which we are
now contemplating, with a very substantial saving of machine time.

{ \

  

JCS: pf
cc: Jack D. Porter

  

\


