research. As a2 matter of fact, this was true to such an extent that the
machine did not contribute as effectively to the academic research program

as it might have done had it not been operated un a self®supportnng basis.
Specifically, I believe the operation of a machine computing facility of this
type should be sponsored in such a manner that the financial revenue for its
utilization not be the primary concern. The Analyzer wvas always operated under
a self-supporting basis, and this of necessity limited its application to groups
wvho had adequate means to pay for its use. A better plan,of eourse, is one in
vhich the Adaministration would provide adequate financial support to permit the
operation of these facilities for educational training and ressarch.

DISPOSITION OF THE DIFFERENTIAL ANALYZER

The studies concermed with the possible utilization of the digital machines
such as the CPC and Whirlwind, had progressed to such a stage that on February
1, 1954 the Institute decided that the Differential Analyzer should be closed

effective July 1, 1954. Hence, in February-, the present operating staff was

notified of this decision in order that they might make other arrangements for

personal employment. As a result, the operation of the Differential Analyzer
was terminated on Jume 30, 19854.

During the spring and susmer months a certain amount of negotiating was
carried on with various Educational Insiitutions concerning the possible dis-
position of the machine. Only the following Universities:

a) Northwestern {iniversity, Evanston, Illineois,
b) Purdue University, Lafayette,,Indiana,

¢) University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa.,
d) The University of Commecticut, Storrs, Conn.

expressed & serious interest in the possible utilization of porticms of this
mackine. After several visits by representatives, etc., it wvas mutually agreed
that Purdue University would take the major portion of the machine. The remaining
Universities expressed an interest in only 2 small part of the RDA.

Once it became apparent that the RDA was not to be removed and reinstalled
as & complete working unit 2t some other locz:iion, plens were rapidly formulated
for its actual removal. Specifically, early in September, Dr. Stratton arranged
for an M.I.T. appropriation of $5000 (Operating Account 1979.41) to co¥er the
cost of removing and dismantling of the RDA. On August 17, 1954, Prof. G. B.
Brown officially notified veriocus members of the M.I.T. family of the decision
to remove the RDA and asked them to express their interest in possible use of
machine components. Therefore, in approximately six weeks @2 definite decision
was made regarding the diztribution of the Analyzer. On Octohar '4, a crew of
S5 technicians began to dismantle the RDA.

Table I contains the names of sister Institutions, vgrious M.I.T. projscts,
and the type and amount of RDA eguipment which they received. Roughly spesking,

Purdue University was given one-third of the RDA and other groups received the
rest.