LABORATORY OF THE

INSTITUTE FOR MUSCLE RESEARCH 3 ie? =
AT THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORY RL Xr
WOooDs HOLE, MASSACHUSETTS Cok ro
TELEPHONE FALMOUTH 630 W \ XY / = 7
Director Je or
ALBERT SZENT-GYORGYI, M. D., PH. D.
TEL: FALMOUTH 2233 W May 1 1957

Dr. P. M. Morse
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. Morse,

Last Friday, when I approached Mr. Bruce Oldfield at the I.B.M.
in New York to discuss my research project, I was advised also to
contact you to inquire about the possibility of computational facili-
ties on the I.B.M. 704 at M.I.T.

I am an associate of Dr. Albert Szent-Gyorgyi in his Institute
which is a non-profit organization with limited funds. We are very
much interested in the development of a completely new field, quan-
tunbiology, which we think will be very important for a whole new era
of biology as shown by Dr. Szent-Gyorgyi in his recent paper "Bioener-
getics" in Science (Nov. 2, 1956, vol. 124, pages 873-875), and in his
new book "Bioenergetics" (Acad. Press 1957) which is concerned with the
study of phosphorescence and triplet state energies of biologically
important molecules like carcinogens, purines, nucleic acids, vitamins,
hormones and their interactions (as well as e.g. their interaction with
the biologically, of courseyalso fundamental oxygen molecule).

Experimental results recently obtained in this laboratory are most
promising. In connection with these experimental studies we think that
it is imperative to study biologically important molecules along the
lines of quantumchemistry which field is presently developing at a rapid
rate. I would like to draw your attention also to the medically important
results about carcinogens obtained in the Department of Theoretical Chemis-
try of the University of Paris, France, by Drs. A. and B. Pullman as shown
in their book "Cancerisation par les substances Chimiques et Structure
Moléculaire" Paris: Masson 1955%

I have calculated on a desk calculator quantummechanically with the
L.C.A.O0.M.0, method the ground state of the biologically important mole-
cule adenine and have obtained results in complete agreement with those
obtained by Drs. A. and B. Pullman and G. Berthier ("Recherches sur ls structure
electronique des composes actifs en chimotheérapie du cancer". Compt. Rend.
Acad.Sci. 243, 380-382, 1956) with electronic computers in Paris. At the
moment, I am working also on the ground state of riboflavin (vitamin B,).

I might add that I am in correspondence with Dr. B. Pullman, who is so much
interested in a suggestion which I have recently made that he is at present
making calculations about this idea with electronic computers in Paris,
France.


However, for the excited states as e.g. the lowest triplet level
which Dr. Szent-Gyorgyi thinks is most important for biology, we will
have to apply more sophisticated methods, using self-consistent molecu-
1ar orbitals and configuration interaction as Dr. Pariser has done
recently for some simpler molecules. Dr. Pariser, who is at the Jackson
Laboratory of E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company in Wilmington, Delaware,
is very much interested in the above-mentioned applications. However,
these applications can only be made with the use of digital computers,
which is the reason I am looking for computational facilities and I wonder
if there is a possibility at M.I.T.

Looking forward to your answer,
Very sincerely yours,

George arr

George Karreman
GK:vb


