AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY

190 HOPE STREET, PROVIDENCE 6, R. L

April 20, 1960

Professor Philip M. Morse, Director
Computation Center - Room 26-146
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
77 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

Professor Freiberger and Dr. Walker have asked me to send you
the enclosed information about the Conference of University Computing Center
Directors.

I am enclosing a list of University Digital Computer users, on
which we would like to have you either specify your order of preference or indi-
cate rules to be followed. We will then mark the amount of money each will re-
ceive (first-class air fare plus $36) and send out invitations to the limit of the
budget. As we receive word that participants cannot attend, or are asking for
less money than our budgeted amount, others will be invited.

I am also enclosing a draft of a letter to be sent to the participants,
over Professor Freiberger's signature. Please return the original, with any sug-
gested changes you may have.

If everything is in order, we expect to send out the invitations on
Monday, April twenty-fifth.

One of our staff members will be in Chicago on Friday and Saturday
of this week and will check on the physical arrangements at the Shoreland Hotel.

Sincerely yours,

3
’

Nm)

V7

> {

ALLS { rt
- Foc Ly CO

MEK: JW Margaret E. Kellar
Enclosures Executive Assistant

7 4

oO

“ {


AN

| \ N
AE

NTS
/ CNY

Vo

AN

»
{ , N
=X

Se

 

7 ’ El : . ’ |
Klee 2 Zz @ Ere oar rks ce ct C ort Ez Coo vio ; RANA Lx
At. UW oe Ke

The first National Conference of University Computing Center
Directors will be held June 2, 3, and 4 at the Shoreland Hotel in Chicaga Illinois.
Arrangements for the Conference are being made by the Headquarters Office of the
American Mathematical Society under financial sponsorship of the National Science
Foundation. The following Committee is planning the program:

Philip Morse, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, (Chairman)
Walter Freiberger, Brown University (Secretary)
E. L. Buell, Worcester Polytechnic Institute

S. Gorn, University of Pennsylvania

T. A. Keenan, University of Rochester

W. B. Kehl, University of Pittsburgh

A. J. Perlis, Carnegie Institute of Technology
H. R. Rymer, Northwestern University

D. R. Shreve, Oklahoma State University

W. J. Viavant, University of Oklahoma

W. H. Wells, Georgia State College

A. W. Wymore, University of Arizona

The purpose of the Conference is to investigate problems peculiar to
University Computing Centers and publish a report embodying the findings. The follow-

ing five topics have been selected for the agenda.

1. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of financing centers?
What fraction of time can be "sold" and what fraction should be free? v CAIN

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real intellectual
challenge, for research in the use of machines? What are the opportunities for theses
in these fields; how are such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted
on the basis of these theses? 'S oY

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be offered? Should
courses on machine coding be given for credit or as short courses without credit or as
parts of other appropriate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual con-
tent, intimately involving computing machines, are being given and in what departments ?

4, Computing service to university departments: Who in the college should be
given "free time''? What priority system can be set up in case of overdemand? How
does one distinguish between free and paying users? What are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory committees to administer such a service program?

5. Government relations: How should work done under Government contracts
be charged? Would it be feasible to establish a uniform scale of charges for the various
machines and services throughout the country?


-9.

The meeting is expected to last three days. It would be opened by
introductory remarks from Professor Morse and then be briefly addressed by the
Chairmen of the five sections. At this opening plenary session every participant
will be able to voice his opinion on matters appertaining to all subjects and not only
the one he is being asked to choose in this invitation. This should give the individual
sections enough material to work on during their own sessions the next day. On this
second day the sections will meet privately and prepare recommendations to be dis-
cussed at the final plenary session on the third day. On the final day the Chairmen
of the five sections will present their conclusions to the full meeting. The discussion
of these conclusions will, it is hoped, lead to firm recommendations to be embodied
in the conference report. The group drafting this final report should have an oppor-
tunity to meet and discuss its final form on the afternoon or evening of the third day.

The Organizing Committee hereby invites you to attend the conference.

Funds are available to pay a part of the travel expenses and per diem
of the participants. However, to have as broad a participation as possible with the
limited funds available, the Committee wishes to encourage participants to pay as
large a portion of their travel expenses and subsistence as they can charge to their
own travel funds or contract.

There is a provision in the budget of the conference to reimburse your

travel and subsistence claims if they do not exceed $


Return this form by a aay

Dr. Gordon L. Walker, Executive Director
American Mathematical Society

190 Hope Street

Providence 6, Rhode Island

Name:
ree yy
Mailing Address:
ee i eet CN ot We Sen
Please check the appropriate blanks below:
I plan to attend the meeting.......
I am unable to attend the meeting. .

I will be able to pay my expenses
from travel funds or a contract.

I will need financial support not
foexceed. cco. tivconess Goce ne

I am particularly interested in the following agenda item (circle one).
1 2 3 4 5


