80
j, USE OF THE CONDENSER PROGRAM

The condenser program has two purposes and may be used
for either of them or for both simultaneously as determined by
gense switches,

The first function is to prepare a condensed library
tape or to make a new library tape which is a modification of
an old one with insertions and deletions.

The second function 1s To prepare condensed symbolic
cards., The use of the sense switches is as follows,.

If a library tape is to be prepared sense switch % 1is up.

If preparation of a library tape is to be suppressed sense

switch 3 is down. A blank tape is mounted as tape 3 1f &

library tape 1s desired.

If the new library tape is to be obtained from an old one by
insertions and deletions, the old tape is mounted as tape 2 (with

2 blank tape 3 for the new tape) and sense: switch 2 1s up. Lf

there is no old library tape (the condensed library is being startedl
fpom scratch) sense switch 2 should be down.

If condensed symbolic cards are desired for the new
subroutines (you can't get them for the ones on the old library
tape) switch L should be up and a blank tape mounted as tape L.
If condensed cards are not desired switch li should be down.

The tape li produced by the program is run on the: off line tape
to cards machine to produce the condensed symbolic cards.,

We shall first describe the preparation of the programs to
be condensed in the simple case when there is no old library
tape., First comes a blank card. Then come the subroutines in the
order in which they are to appear on the library tape. Each
subroutine is to be preceded by an LIB card with the name of
the subroutine in the location field, and 1s to be followed by
and END card. The resulting deck is to be read on the off line
card to tape machine and followed by an end of file mark. This
tape is mounted as tape 1.

Finally, the condenser program should be loaded from cards.

The decks to be condensed may include condensed cards
provided that the same conventions are observed as when condensed
cards are included in an assembly. Namely, each group of condensed

cards must be preceded by a standard CND card and the group must