L L5
-

 

 

Minutes of the Fourteenth Meeting
| ~ of the "
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

March 21, 1951

.

Iersons Present: R. R. Everett, H. Feshbach, Z. Kopal, C. Lin,
kit P. M. Morse, and E. Reissner

- Morse reported that DIC has approved definite (rather than
{entative) appointments of assistantships in Applied Mathematics
¢nd Machine Computation; they feel the contract is near cnough
completion to warrant this. Morse also pointed out that, for the
first round of appointments, ecch Departuent could figure on a
iotal of about 310,000, to De split as it saw fit (five half-time

¢t Y2000 each, or four full-time at $2500 each, etCa).

Kopal presented applicatlions for assistantships fors
¥W. K. Taylor, Malcolm Frazier, S. Yamamura, D, C. Leigh

The Conmittee suggests that the Electrical Engineering Department
¢ ppoint Taylor as Assistant in Applied Mathematics and Machine
(omputation, if he is interested in such an appointment, that
Frazier also be appointed 1f the Department definitely felt he
vas up to their standard for other like appointments and that ac-
tion be postponed on the other two, to see what other applica-
iilons come in.

Morse presented the application of L. Sartori (already here
s graduate student in Physics), recommended that the application
e held until we see what other applications come in. Three let-
ters from mathematicians, inguiring about the assistantships were
turned over to Reissner and Lin to find the wishes of their De-
rartment. In one case (2 post-doctoral man) Lin was to get more
tacksround from the man, to turn over to Whirlwind for considera-
tion for his suitability for Adams? group.

There was a little discussion concerning the administracion
¢f these assistantships. Students in each department would be
s zpervised by the two Committee members from that Department and
would be assigned a specific task from the beginning, thouzh it
i3 understood that progress will not be rapid for the firsi-year
wan, since they will be learning the field., Each student must be