PROFESSOR JOHN W. QARR III, Research
Computation Center, University of North Caro-
lina.

In addition representatives of computer manu-
facturers will be invited to report on their latest
researches. In continuation of an exchange of
personnel last year initiated by Professor Carr
when United States and Soviet computer scien-
tists visited the other’s country, Dr..A. P. Ershov,
author of the compilers for the Soviet Computers
BESM and Strela, will be invited to lecture in
this course if circumstances permit.

Frontier Research in Numerical
Analysis for Computers

This course will emphasize recent devel-
opment in numerical analysis, based both on
theoretical considerations and experiences in
actual computation at leading centers. This
course should be of most interest to practic-
ing analysts in digital computation installa-
tions, and to those mathematicians, engineers,
and scientists who have not had access to the
newest techniques in computer oriented nu-
merical analysis.

The following lecturers are among those
who have been or will be invited:

DR. R. W. HAMMING, Bell Telephone Labora-
tories, and present President of the Association
for Computing Machinery.

PROFESSOR DAVID YOUNG, Director, Com-
putation Laboratory of the University of Texas,
formerly Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation.

DR. HEINZ RUTISHAUSER, Eidgenoessische
Technische Hochschule, Zurich.

DR. JACK MOSHMAN, Corporation for Eco-
nomic and Industrial Research, and Secretary,
Association for Computing Machinery.

PROFESSOR JOHN W. CARR III, Research
Computation Center, University of North Caro-
lina.

In keeping with the continuation of exchange
lectureships first arranged last year, Professor
L. V. Kantorovich of Leningrad University, a lead-
ing authority on linear programming, functional
analysis, and numerical analysis will be invited
to lecture in this course, if circumstances permit.

 

FLEXIBLE ATTENDANCE

Lecture schedules will be so arranged that
persons enrolled in the advanced courses may
easily attend lectures in another course if
they so desire.

FOREIGN COMPUTER ACTIVITY

Special lectures, notes, and discussions
will be held on recent activity in the design,
construction, and use of computers in the
Soviet Union, United Kingdom, France, Ger-
many, Switzerland, and other foreign coun-
tries.

GENERAL SESSIONS

Every night during the course period,
general sessions discussing items of interest
to all those attending will be held, at whica
such diverse subjects as “Present Computer
Progress in the Soviet Union,” “Can a Digi-
tal Computer Teach a Course in Digital Com-
putation?”, “The Present Status of Machine
Language Translation,” “Machines With
Many Control Counters,” and others will be
presented by members of the lecturing staff,
or others attending just for the occasion.

HOUSING

All classrooms and meeting rooms will be
airconditioned, and, in addition, rooms at the
Carolina Inn, completely airconditioned, may
be reserved by attendees not desiring to stay
in less expensive dormitory accommodations,
by contacting the Carolina Inn direct.

APPLICATIONS

Applications for enrollment and requests
for information should be directed to James
G. Steagall, University Extension Division,
Box 1050, Chapel Hill, N. C. The fees for the
courses are listed below and include instruc-
tion, course notes, and computer operation
costs. Advanced enrollment is necessary to
plan the course attendance, the number of
students accepted being limited. A check

fgflsti}cl)if%l.l f.e.e’ payable to the University Ex-
quest f vision, should accompany the re-
mentalor enro.llment- Companies or govern-
rather tﬁgenCles may send purchase orders
ment an checks. Application for enroll-

should be made by June 15, 1959, and

im?.uld note which course is being applied

FEES

Introduction to the Use of Digital Computers

: _JOhn W. Carr III, and staff of the Compu-
ation Center and others.

August 17-28 $150.00

F?‘f)nt@,- Research in Programming and Arti-
ficial Intelligence

John W. Carr III and others.
August 17-28 $200.00

Frontier Research in Numerical Analysis for
Computers |

John W. Carr III and others.
August 17-28 $200.00

FURTHER ANNOUNCEMENT

.A further announcement containing a de-
tailed list of lectures and lecturers for each
o-f the three courses, further housing informa-
tion and description of recreational facilities
yvill be mailed later this spring. Personé
indicating interest in enrollment will auto-

matically receive such further announce-
ments.

Courses In

Frontier Research

Oon

Digital Computers

INTRODUCTION TO THE USE OF
DIGITAL COMPUTERS

August 17 to 28, 1959

Intensive Courses for Engineers, Scientists,
Industrial and Business Users of
Digital Computers

UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
ExXTENSION DIVISION

1959
SUMMER SESSION