: - /\\ fird /M?ﬂ/
- WMW o
2 DR o)
O s )

momwx TO: Mre Joseph Snyder

FROM: He Rs Boyd
DATE: ' November 7, 1952
SUBJECT: Rockefeller Differential aAn er (RDA

ABSTRACT

A request for clarification of responsibility in the
future use of the RDA by the Instrumentation Laboratory.
Included are statements of the Instrumentation Laboraw
tory need for EDA for at least two years to satisfy
obligations to government sponsors; a summary of use
during the past two years and recommendations for
future usage., Appendices include details of usage and
fiscal charges for the past two years; a list of future
work to be done; a technical description of the calibra=
tion problem and copies of pertinent memoranda,

Section 1,0 INTRODUCTION

This memorandum is addressed to you in the belief that your
current responsibilities include the RDAs I have taken the liberty of
sending copies to Prof. Floe, Prof. Morse, Dr. F. L. Foster, Mr. J. Little
and Mr, F, Watriss, with whom I have recently discussed the situation.
Several factors indicate that now is an appropriate time to ask for a

| clarification of respomsibility in the future use of the RDA, These
factors include Mr. Verzuh's desire to clarify his position, the resigna-
tion of Mrs. Hogan, veteran operator of the RDA, differences in opinion
on the charging for non-Instrumentation Laboratory usage, and the current
interest in the Statistical Services of Mr. Little and Mr, Watriss.

Section 2,0 RESPONSIBILITY!

Instrumentation Laboratory members believe that they assumed
complete responsibility for RDA operation on October 1, 1950, This situae
tion was the result of the Institute's decision to close down the RDA
permanently in June of 1950, Since the Instrumentation Laboratory had
work requiring the analyzer which Dr, Draper felt obligated to carry on,
we assumed all costs. This included transferring 3 machinists, 1 techni=
cian, and the Chief Operator, Mrs. Hogan, to our Payroll; and purchasing

WM-

1 The following statement is extracted from the Provost's memo of January 1,
1951, establishing the Committee on Machine Methods of Computation: "This
year the Department of Aeronautical Engineering through the Instrumentation
Laboratory has assumed responsibility for the operation of the Differential
Analyzer,"