COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes of the Eifth Meeting

Academic Year '51—'52

Persons Present: C. V. Adams, S. H. Caldwell, H. Feshbach,
E. R. Gilliland, C. Lin, P. M. Morse,
H. M. Paynter and E. Reissner

The majority of the meeting was spent in discussing prob-
lems in Chemical Engineering with Professor Gilliland, and in Civil
Engineering with Professor Paynter. It was the opinion of the com-
mittee that there are considerable possibilities in problems in
Chemical Engineering for utilization of machines. It was s 7gested
to Professor Gilliland that he and some of the other members of the
faculty in his department could avail themselves of the opportunity
to attend seminars in this subject, or to meet the project super-
visors for various machines. In particular, it was pointed out
that there was an opportunity for the training of graduate students
primarily-in Chemical Engineering, but secondarily in the use of
machines to solve their problems. Professor Gilliland was going to

consider the possibility of interesting some graduate students in
this work.

a Professor Paynter was aware of the possibilities of
machines, but was interested in means whereby he could get to use
the machines here at the Institute. Mr. Adams made arrangements
for him to visit Whirlwind and an invitation was extended to Pro-
fessor Paynter to attend the seminars in machine methods.

It was reported by Reissner that Mr. Handy was resigning
from his assistantship. He was not sure whether another graduate
student could be found to qualify to take over this position for
the second term. Morse reported that Miss Altman was shifting from
an assistantship in Machine Computation to an assistantship in
Cosmic Rays, and that there might be an alternative candidate for
the second term.

The times for possible committee meetings for next
semester were discussed. It appears that the hour from 2 — 3 on
Wednesday is preferred by most, although an alternative would be
from 3 a 4 on Tuesday. Final decision on this will have to wait a
determination of the rest of the schedule for second term.

It was suggested that we might try consolidatin“ the
seminar in machine methods with the seminar begun Dy the hirlwind

group. Mr. Adams was consulted about this and he indicated that
this might be desirable, and that he would consult with others in
Whirlwind to determine possible objections. If the objections do