s AT TN e

' THE SUPPORT OF MACHINE PROGRAMMING STAFF e R
\ FOR THE UTILIZATION OF  ° )
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS IN SOCIAL SCIENCE

Tné.r.asmsy_and_n.a_f_mnmmm

The high-speed computing facility, to be installed by
iBM at the new Computation Center at MIT will be the largest and
most flexible faclllty Iin this country to be devoted exclusively
to unclassified research and education. IBM will contribute wmore
than a fifth of a million a year in 1ts support for maintenance
and operation. What 18 ‘needed, in addition, to make this an out-
standing center for the investigation of digital computer
potentlalities 1n all branches of sclentific research, is about
$100,000 a year for the support of a research staff, which can
work with sclentists in various fields to develop new and more
effective techniquee of msachine utilization.

Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in New
England to participate in the use of the machines, and IBM has set
up funds for Assistantships €0 enable graduate students, at MIT
and at the participating colleges, to spend time at the Center
learning to use the equipment. This Center and these arrangements
represent potentialities for new developments in social and
physical science of great and unexplored importance.

| There will be no charge for machine time made to students
or faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the
routine aspects of operation will be taken gare of by IBM, so that
those who know how to use such equipment can use 1t, without cost,
up to the fourteen hours a day during which the machine will be
avallable at first. A number of problems in economics are going
to be put on the machine by Professor Solow of MIT and by Professor
Orcutt of Harvard and, as other research workers in the social
sciences learn how to use the equipment, other problems will be
brought to the Center.

The Importance of Team Research

But an instrumentalily, by itself, cannot produce new
research. To make the Iimportant advances which are possible with

a computer of the speed and flexibility of this, one needs a team
of research people, some of whom know the machine and some of whom
know the research fleld. To get exciting new possibilities beyond

D0

the stage of a "gleam 1n the eye" we need, in addition to the

machlne, a staff of experts in machine use, ready to team up with
those sclentists who believe the machlne can help them but are not
sure how, so that, between them, they can translate the "gleam in
the eye" into new and important results.

-