Dk

operatién to experimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicabllity of computers in the physical
and soclial sciences and in engineering.

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senlor staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it 1s the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the
participating colleges would Join 1t for a semester or a year, on
leave from thelr Institution, to work full-time at the Center.

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, bullding, maintenance, and
operating starff of the Center. Ve believe that a contribution of
about 100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energilze and take the lead in the re-
search carried on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the partlcipating colleges. Ve list later In this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects will develop naturally from these and
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center.

The project would not start at full strength. The 704 will
not be installed untlil January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract untlil December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order To get ready for the new machine
installation. Ve estimate that a total budget of g60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, $90,000 for 1957-58 and g100,000
for 1958-59. Details are glven later in this proposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the program should be re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial support
frcam both agencies, an 2qual share from each. VWe belleve the work
can be divided so that reparate contracts can be written. Some of
the proposed taskes would be different, though some of the broader

-

Yields of investilg: ticu wculd ocverlzrn. We wculd hope that we could