COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Minutes of the Ninth Meeting
Academic Year '51-'52

Persons Present: S. H. Caldwell, J. W. Forrester,
F. BE. Hildebrand, C. Lin, P, M. Morse, and
E. Neissner,

The action on applications for next yéar's assistant-
ships was reviewed. lMorse reported that Ruth Seiwatz and R. D.
Haun had turned down offers. The Committee approved appointing
John D. Little. (Since the Committee Meeting, Leo Sartori has
been awarded a National Seilence Foundation fellowship for next
year and is consequently relinguishing his half-time assistant-
ship.) Lin reported that H. Glantz had iccepted , which com-
pleted the Mathematics recommendations fr next year for the
present. The sppointments made and accepted for next year
are consequently: Chemical Engineering - J. FF. O'Donnell;
Mathematics - N. J. Hicks, P. Fox, A. Relston, H. Glantz,
R. L. Martino, and D. G. Aronson: Physics - 8S, I. Rubinow,
F. J. Corbato, M. C. lizwstein, A. Temkin, A. Duren;, M. Roten-
berg, J. L. Uretsky, I'. Cambelic, and J. D. Little.

Three temporary appointments for the summer were
discussed and approved. Professor Henry Wallman, now in sweden,
wishes to return to M.I.T. for three months this summer for work
partly with the Electrical Engineering Department and partly with
the Mathematics Department. It was suggested and approved by the
Committee that the Machine Project contribute toward his salary
for the summer and request “rofessor Wellman to work with the
project for part of his time here, thus giving the project the
benefit of his experience in this field. The two other appoint-
ments were concerned with liaison between the Whirlwind group
and workers in other machine projects. Dr. David Wheeler has
been at the University of Illinois, connected with their com-
puter project. It was suggested and approved that Pr. Wheeler

learn what we ave doling and
to tell us his experience. A similar lisiscn wich the active
computer group in Cambridge, England, will be achieved by ap-
pointing Mr. Eric Mutch, first sistant tc Professor Wilkes
of Cambridge Univerzity, for three montac this summer.

Professor Hildebreond reported on a proposed course
on Numerical Analysis to be given next year in the fall term.
Suggested catalogue eseription for this one-term course,
entitled "Numerical Analysis 1%, is appended. The Committee
agreed that the subject matier described was appropriate for
such a course and tha course of this sort was needed.

2
'

k
os (3 D3


“Dm

Professors Reissner and Lin were requested to carry this opinion
back to the Mathematics Department and to suggest that the Mathe-
matics Department discuss such a course to be given by Professor
Hildebrand next fall. Hi : :

There was also discussion concerning a second term
continuation of this proposed course. Professor illldebrand had
not gotten far along in his planning and was not at all sure that
he would be ready tc give a second term next year. After some
discussion with the Committee, however, he outlined a tentative
catalogue description for a possible second-ierm course, "Numerical
Analysis II", This also is appended. It was suggested and agreed
that further discussion concerning this second-term course should
take place before any final aectlon is taken; for example, it is
not clear how this suggested second term may averlap a possible
second-term course suggested by Dr. Grosch of the Whirlwind Pro-
Jeet.

Caldwell pointed out that the Kopal project at present
being run by Dr. Jacchia has a number of items owned by the
Center of Analysis, among them being a number of desk computing
machines. He suggested that these be checked over before the
Jacchia project moved to Harvard and that these machines might be
made available for whatever laboratory course was to go along with
the course in Numerical Analysis. Mr. Frank Verzuh, subsequent to
this meeting, went cover the inventory with Jacchia, and has supplied
Morse with a list of the machines available. (1 Monroe, 8 Marchants,
and 1 National Cash Register Differencing Machine). Verzuh has been
asked to take care cof this eguipment for the time being until a
decision on the laboratory is come to. There is also a library of
tables and texts on computing which will be held for future disposi-
tion.

The next meeting 1s to be held on April 16, at 3 p.m.
Further discussion of future courses in this field, and a posslble
discussion of problems in Geophysics or Metallurgy may be on the
agenda.

STEN WN |

: Tr)
Phillipa M. Morse
Chairman
Meeting Date: April 2, 1852
(Dictated: April ©, 1652)


Suggested catalog description for first course: Numerical Analysis I:

Theory and practice in polynomial approximation,
interpolation, numerical differertiation, numerical integration,
and approximate solution of ordirary differential equations,
Including error snalysis, with perticular emphasis on methods
adaptable to digital computing mechines. Prerequisite: M351

Tentative description of possible second course: Numerical Analysis II:

difference methods, and related rethods, to partial differential
equations, especially to second-order equations of elliptie,
parabolic, and hyperbolic type, with particular emphasis on
problems of convergence, stability, and error estimation.
Prevequisite: NA I, M30

selected topics relative to applications of finite-
i

Topics suitable for inclusion in second gourse:

Inversion of matrices of high order (convergence of
iterative methods of various types). Cenvergence of iterative
difference methods applied %o elliptic differential equations:
error estimates; use of sub- and superhermonic functions on a
net; numerical methods applied to conformal mapping and use of
orthogonal functions. Stability and convergence of difference-
equation approximations to linear and quasi-linear parabolic
equations. Convergence problems and use of characteristics in
connection with hyperbolic equations. "Rardom wall" problems.
"Monte © Carlioc" methods.


