COUNCIL FOR ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH, INC.

 

 

 

1200 JEFFERSON DAVIS HIGHWAY, ARLINGTON 2, VIRGINIA OT. 4-6377

 

January 24, 1957

Philip M. Morse, Chairman

Operations Research Committee
Massachusetts Tnstitute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Mr. lorse:

I thought you would be interested to learn that the Council has
now substantially enlarged its Computer Services Division, and that it will
be in full operation by February 15. The Division offers a complete range
of services in programming, computing, and data-processing.

Initially, the Division's basic equipment will include an IRM 704
computer with one magnetic core memory of 4,096 words, one magnetic drum
unit containing four logical drums, each with a capacity of 2,048 words, and
five magnetic tape units. Supporting equipment includes a tape-to-card con-
verter as well as conventional punched card equipment, most of which will be
available about February 1. A second core memory is on order, and will be
installed about May 1, 1957. Additional Specialized equipment will be added
rapidly as the developing needs of our clients become apparent. The Computer
Services Division will be housed in the Council's Research Center, located
at 1200 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington 2, Virginia. This is about one-
half mile south of the Pentagon. Our Computer Services Division is under
the direction of Mr. William Orchard-Hays, recently of the RAND Corporation.

Dr. Jack Moshman, now with the Bell Telephone Laboratories, who will shortly
be joining the Council on a full-time basis. This Division has the person-
nel and facilities for formulating, analyzing, and specifying procedures

for solving problems of a scientific or commercial nature, working in close
cooperation with the client's staff. Professors Max Woodbury, of New York
University, and John W. Carr III, of the University of Michigan, have agreed
to work with us on advanced problems involving computer application. We
plan to retain additional leading consultants in all fields in which our
potential clients are likely to encounter problems.


Since our enlarged computer installation is still in its initial
stages, a substantial amount of time is currently available. We plan to
operate on a 3-shift basis as quickly as possible, and are therefore
naturally interested in allocating computer time on a long-term, or large-
block basis wherever that may be feasible. Where such possibilities exist,
we are prepared to negotiate a commitment on our part to supply specified
amounts of computer time during specified periods. We are not yet in a

position to quote an hourly computer rate, but can promise that it will be
relatively low.

As you will realize, our new computer will be able to handle a great
variety of calculations. The existence of a large number of 704 routines
for commonly used sub-calculations, as well as some complete programs for
standardized problems, greatly reduces programming time in most cases.

For example, a complete set of codes are in operation for handling Linear
Programming problems up to as large as 255 restraint equations in any
number of unknowns. The only preparation that is necessary for the machine
is to keypunch the input data. Incidentally, the present staff has wide
experience in this type of calculation.

there 70/, programs are not already available, we shall be glad to
work out with you the most practicable method of adapting your problem to
the machine. One of the goals of the machine programming staff is to
build a library of routines which will facilitate handling of a variety
of problems, and you will find them attentive to your particular require-
ments.

If you foresee long- or short-term computer requirements during the
coming year, and find you may need to meet them on a contract basis, we
should appreciate hearing from you.

The facilities of the Council have a high security clearance.

Incidentally, as a practical consideration, it is worth mentioning
that our Research Center is not more than 10 minutes ride from the National
Airport, and about 5 minutes from the new Marriott Motel, the largest and
most modern in the country. Moreover, we have arrangements with the airlines
to have any mail or packages delivered to the airport at flight-time. Such
material could also be picked up immediately at destination. In many
instances, this would make it possible for us to receive data in the morning,
complete the computations, and forward the results in the course of a single
day.

Sincerely yours,

Kole 20 Gln,

Herbert W. Robinson
a


