LECTURES ON FUNCTIONS OF A COMPLEX VARIABLE
The University of Michigan Press

Contents

G. T. Whyburn. Infroductory topological analysis

D. C. Spencer.  Potential theory and almost-complex manifolds
L. V. Ahlfors. Remarks on Riemann surfaces

Zeev Nehari. Univalent functions and linear differential equations
Rolf Nevanlinna. Countability of a Riemann surface

Rolf Nevanlinna. Polygonal representation of Riemann surfaces
Shizuo Kakutani. Rings of analytic functions

Marcel Brelot. Topologies on the boundary and harmonic measure
Marcel Brelot. Topology of R. S. Martin and Green lines

James Jenkins and Marston Morse. Conjugate nets on an open Riemann
surface

W. K. Hayman. The growth of entire and subharmonic functions

W. K. Hayman. Uniformly normal families

Lipman Bers. Local theory of pseudoanalytic functions

Leo Sario. Functionals on Riemann surfaces

Leo Sario. Positive harmonic functions

P. C. Rosenbloom. Distribution of zeros of polynomials

P. C. Rosenbloom and S. E. Warschawski. Approximation by polynomials
Makoto Ohtsuka. Boundary components of abstract Riemann surfaces

H. L. Royden. Conformal deformation

Salomon Bochner. Functions in one complex variable as viewed from the
theory of funections in several variables

Avron Douglis. Function-theoretic properties of certain elliptic systems of
first-order linear equations

Harvey Cohn. Modular functions defined by perturbation mappings

H. J. Bremermann. Holomorphic continuation of the kernel function and the
Bergman metric in several complex variables

J. L. Ullman. Regularity criteria in potential theory
Walter Rudin. Analytic functions of class H,

Harold S. Shapiro. Applications of normed linear spaces to function-theoretic
extremal problems

Walter Baum. A topological problem originating in the theory of Riemann
surfaces

R. C. Buck. Expansion theorems for analytic functions. I

Jacob Korevaar. Entire functions as limits of polynomials

Wilfred Kaplan. Curve families and Riemann surfaces

C. J. Titus. The image of the boundary under a local homeomorphism

7

i
At