UCL Memorandum 165 : Page 1 of §

Digital Computer Laboratory
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

SUBJECT: SHARE ASSEMBLER OPERATOR'S NOTES FOR INITIAL USE AT THE MIT
COMPUTATION CENTER

To3 Philip M., Morse
Prom: Sheldon F, Best
Dates February 27, 1057

The SHARE ASSEMBLER has been modified so that:
1) many symbolic programs may be loaded om the zcxme input tape,
2) many assembly-listings may be obtained or the same output tape,
3) the assembly program itself may be stored on tape.
These operating notes should be used at MIT im place of those issued by the
United Aircraft Corporation om March 7, 1956.

Note to any Programmer reading this:

This ig really a memo to the machine operator and prograzmers will
rot normally need to know many of the details givem below, All the prograz=er
norrally will need to do to get his deck assembled is to give it to am opera-

tor along with a filled out request for assembly form, Blank forms will be

available at the Computation Center. On this form he will indicate what kind
cf binary cards he wants (absolute in the normal case, hut possibly relocatable,
or rarely 34 words/card) and whether he wants a symbol table or mot, He may
also indicate whether he wants library subroutines printed on his assembly
listing. In due course, he will receive an assembly listimg back which he
should proofread for errors before submitting a request to have his program

wen
7 WA,

Control Panel Requirements:
SHARE 72 column reader pemel (1 - 72)
SHARE 72 column punch pamel (1 - 72)
SHARE 72 ~ 120 printer panel


However,

reader.

logical
logical
logical
logical
logical
logical

Logical
Logical
Logical
Logical

 

 

Page 2

tape 1: contains the SHARE ASSEMBLER (file protect on)
tape 2: output tape {off-line assembly listings)

tape 3: library tape

tape 4: secondary input tape

tape 5: binary output tape

tape 6: primary input tape (loaded on off-line reader)

tape 1 will always be required to store the SHARE ASSEMBLER.
tape 2 is not needed if no off-line output is produced,

tape 3 is not needed if the library is not used.

tape 4 is normally needed for either off-line or on-line input.
it is not required if the symbolic deck is read twice by the on-line

Logical tape 5 is noi needed if no binary tape is prod ced; that is,
if binary cards are produced.

Logical tape 6 is not needed for on-line input.

Sense Switches:

1 Up and 2 Up: Input to first pass ig from logical tape 6. (Previously

{rd

tad

Down and
2 Ups

. Down and

2 Down:

prepared on the off-line reader). Input to secoad pass is
from logical tape 4, (which is written during first pass).
Input to first pass is from symbolic cards read on-line.
Input to the second pass jo from logical tape 4 which (with
¢his sense switch setting) is written during the £irst pass.
Input to both passes is from symbolic cards read on-line.
with this sense switch setting, logical tapes 4 and 6 are
not used.

Suppress on-line printing,

Agsembly listing is printed on-line.

Any on-line printing is single spaced.

Any on-line printing iS double spaced.

Logical tape 2 is written during the second pass, in order

to permit later off-line printing of assembly listing.


Page 3
5 Downs Suppress preparation of logical tape 2.
6 Up: Suppress printing of library subroutines.
6 Dow: Library cibroutines taken from the library tape are printed.

Operator's Check List:

if necessary, mount the library as logical tape 3 and the SHARE AS-
SEMBLER as logical tape 1.

If the symbolic deck (or decks ) have been writtem on tape, mount
this tape as logical tape 6,

if any off-line output is desired, set logical tape 2 and rewind it
manually, |

Kemove all punched cards from the on-line punch.

Load one properly made up calling deck for each assembly to be done.
(8e¢ paregraph on calling decks).

After the last assembly is done, remove logical tape 2 for off-line
Printing; that is, if there was any off-line output. (There will be one file
for cach assembly whose output was off-line). :

Remove the binery decks from the on-line punch, (Blank cards will se-

parate symbol tebles from binary decks and one binary deck from amother).

Calling Pecks:
The calling deck for an assembly normally consists of three cards:
MI GET SAP (8Bpecial calling card to read in SAP from tape 1)
1) UA BAP 150 (Normal first pass transfer card) |
UA SAP 258 (Normal second pass transfer card)
If the symbolic deck is to be read on-line, place it between UA SAP 150
and UA ZAP 258,
The calling deck 1) above causes absolute binary cards to be punched
on-line. If relocatable binary cards are desired, replace UA SAP 258 by UA SAP
2 NQ.

If it is desired to punch 24 words/card, replace UA SAP 258 by UA SAP
2 EH,

If it is desired to write 2 binary tepe (logical tape 5) rather than
bunch binary cards, replace UA SAP 258 by UA BAP 2 WT. In this case UA ZCS82


>
J
J
0
63
®
Nh

fol} by UA TSB3 would Hornally be loaded as soon 28 the assembly process
was completed in order to couse immediate execution of the assembled program,

if the symbolic program is to he assembled with reference to a Symbol
table punched during a previous assembly, place the symbol table from the pPre-
viol embly between MI GET SAP

  
 
  
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      

and UA EAP 150.
If the on-line punching of the symbol table is to be suppressed, place
UA EAP S5T between MI GRT SAP and UA SAP 150,

8 to be read on-line during the second pass as

jets

if the symbolic deck
¢ must be piaced immediately following UA

Jule

well as during the first pass,
SAP 253, (or amy card which replaces UA SAP 258, UA SAP 2 NQ for example). The

he

-

symbolic deck must still be read between UA SAP 150 and UA SAP 258.
At the end of an assembly, the assembler executes a load card sequence.
Thus if a number of assemblies are to be done with the same semse switch settings,

time may be saved by Putting the calling decks together in the proper sequence

and loading them into the on-line reader as g single deck.

Putting Symbolic DEcks on Tape with the Off-Line Reader:

AA SHARE 80-84 reader hoard should be used,

The only end-of~file mark should be at the end of the last symbolic
deck loaded on the input tape.

Zach symbolic deck should be carefully checked to make sure the lagt

card is an ERD card.

First Pags Stops:
PTE aT AE I Et rE rer
(437), HTR (400): Should occur only during on-line reading of symbolic

 

{i.e.: sense switch 1 down). Indicates a card
with an illegal (non-Hollerith) ckaracter, or

ine error while reading symbolic cards. Ready

 

vue A amr] es La - an seal eu ade Jy
Correct card in the reader and press start. T e
pT. a alr rn velde 2 ame] ered 95 - obs 31x 4
which the stop occurred will be the third

Te $7 Sun <3 x » de pmwa | a arn +3 dein . oo
2CK in The stacker after running the cards out

eed,
y re — — - ~ p- - 2
ie condition while readin Symbolic cards on-

a


(1414), HIR (1372):
o

(1543) _ HTR (1378):

<Q

(1641), HETR (1550):
(2i2l)g HTR (2116):

(2225), HIR (2330):

8

Second Pass Stops:

(437 :
(437)g HTR (200)

(1463), HIR (1454) 4:

8

4 .
(1474) HTR (1454):

(2456) 4 HTR (2375):

 

Page 5

End of file condition from tepe. Machine error or no
END card writien on tape. Reassemble.

Symbol Table has been filled. Assemble program in
smaller Sectiocas,

Library search foiled twice, Press start to try again,
Wrong Board in printer, Replace with SHARE 72-120
board and press siart.

Check sum for symbol table is wrong. Probably machine

error. Reassemble or press start to contime,

Should occur only during on-line reading of symbolic
cards (i.e.: sense switch 2 down). Indicates a card
punched with an illegal (mon-Hollerith) cheracter, or
a machine error. Ready the correct card im the reader
and press start.

End of file condition while reading symbolic cards
on-line, Ready remainder of deck in reader and press
start.

End of file condition while reading tape. Either
machine error or no END card on tape. Reassemble.

Library seavch failed twice. Press start to try again.


