Extension of NSF 0291K) P380 7

Enclosure 3, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercomnunication
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
e.g., several single-accumlatorcomputers with common mmry,and
the behavior of a computer with multi le accumulators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a 701} byvutilizstion of
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain hmctionals, and thence conver-
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration. '

Facilities:

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 70’; Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 35000
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpha-
betic printer, and punched caE recorder as well as the 3 off-line
magnetic—tape-contmlled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 70‘} there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, mproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 40 Accounting Machine. The aggregate

mactﬁige rental, in excess of 50,000 per month, will be donated
by s .

The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since. the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 70% equipment. ,

Personnel - Supervisgmnd Administrative Personnel Associatg
with the Pro ectz

Princi al Investi ator to be Professor Philip M. Horse,
Director 01' the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Bush differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936'1 "Methods of Operations Research' (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 195?,
and about a hundred Journal articles, mny of which give restate
obtained from machine computation. For further biographie details

see "Who's Who"o Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project.