D

but its expansion will be hampered by the limitations of access
to the 704, as will be discussed later.

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded
rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their work
(inciuding their class exercises). But this use tends to be self-
limiting for, as socon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec-
iate the possibilities in education and research of computers, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on thelr own campus.
By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions have machines
of their cwn. These are smaller machines, of the 650 type, (with
some larger machines projected), 8o these institutions 8till come
to the Center to use the 704 for their bigger Jobs; but it does
mean that the use of the Center by the other New England colleges
will tend to level off to a reasonable load (about one shift, it
now appears) rather than growing continuously, as the MIT usage is
doing. This result, of course, is in accord with our conviction
that computers should be as prevalent as chemistry laboratories.

In contrast, the MIT use of the 704 for research into new
applications has grown s8o that now we are not able to satisfy all
requests for machine time for such work, let alone routine project
calculations of the “production-run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which has
heretofore been reserved for IBM use. In addition to the research
in solid-state theory, in meteorology and oceanography, which now
depend completely on machine computation and could already use more
time than we can allot them, there are a number of research projects
which are basic to the development of new uses for computers, and,
indeed, to tThe development of computers themselves, which are almady
handicapped by shortage of machine tiwe and limitation of TO%
capacities. To mention a few:

Programming Development. The Center staff has already
developed an aucomatic operator routine which is being adopted by
other 7C4 users. More general assembly programs; such as the
Linking Segment Subprogram Loader, which combines Fortran, SAP ard
other special ccdes; COMIT, which enables the TO4 to be used on
language vranslation problems; and LISP, which enables the machine
to handle non-numerical logic, such as algebraic and other symbolic
manipulation, are being developed and tested. The work at MIT in
this field, since Whirlwind days, is well known.

Time-sharing Techniques. We already have a typewriter
connected to the 704, which works on a time-sharing basis with our
regular operator routine, so new programs can be debugged at the

same Tlme that regular computations are being carried out on other
problems, for example. The TO4 cannot effectively accommodate more
Than one or €wo such satelite chamnels, but the Center staff is now