BITCC-6 H.l.T., Computation Center
Hinutes of March 13, 1956 Meeting

 

J Persons Present: D. N. Arden G. T. Bunter P. H, Horse
/@ Ai F. B. Hildebrand  B. Rankin F. H. Verzuh

A brief discussion was held regarding the termination plans of the
Whirlwind Computer. _ The need for informing current users of Whirlwind of
the exact date at which the facility will no longer be available to them
was emphasized. Verzuh discussed the request made by Douglas Ross, Servo-
mechanisms Laboratory, regarding the need for the Whirlwind Computer with
particular emphasis on the input-output equipment, such as the intervention
register, direct {lexowriter keyboard connection, MI instruction, etc.

At The me®ting on Monday, March 12, Ross indicated that two contracts with
the Air Force (VADC) amounting to.some $500,000 during the nezt fiscal period
ave entirely dependent on the availability of the Whirlwind Computer. As

a matter of fact, Ross indicated that if the Digital Computer Laboratory were
to release Whirlwind prior to July, 1967, he would be interested in making
some arrangement with Lincoln to continue its operation for the M.I.T. family.
It was agreed that Whirlwind would be available Gizouge June, 1957 on a
tapering-off basis. 7

Verzuh suggested that the exact date for terminating operations at
Whirlwind, its utilization by M.I.T. after the 704 arrives, its final
disposition, etc., be discussed at the next meeting of the Machine Computation
Commitiee which will be held later this month. In the meantime, Verzuh would
alert Dr. Forrester regarding this matter in order that more definitive
answers regarding Whirlwind may be soon forthcoming.

Professor Hildebrand inquired regarding procedures for applicants from
the Hath. Department for the IBM Research Assistantships. He presented a
folder from Mr. Paul Abrahams and stated that the Mathematics Department
considered Abrahams to be an outstanding applicant. It was suggested. that
Hr. Hershenov and H. J. Weinitschke, currently assistants on Project 6915,
should apply for the IE Assistantships. Since applications are due on

_,.. JHarch 15, actual decisions regarding appointments will not be made until
later this month.

 

 

Verzuh discussed the status of the floor plans of the M.I.T. Computation
Center, efc., which were worked on on Wednesday, March 7 -~ Friday, March 9.
At that time, location of partitions, electrical outlets, blackboards, etc.
vere submitted to Skidmore, Owings, & Meriill. Mr. Carl Peterson will spend
Wednesday, March 14, in New York City to obtain answers to some eight critical
questions regarding the air conditioning equipment, floor substructure,
power supplies, etc, Dr. G. T. Hunter will algo be in New York at that time
to present IEM's point.of view on these plans.

Hunter reported that IBM has received 150 applications for the l0-week
educational program which is. being held in New York City. Obviouslya number of
rejectionswill have to be made because of the limited possible attendance.


HITCC-6 page 2 of 2 pages

Horse stated that the computation center will have considerable
independent stature since it will be able to appoint research assistant
and assccicteships without recourse to departmental affiliation -- "it will
do everything except award degrees’. He briefly described the method of
financing some of the operations within the center and stated that he had
submitted a M.1.T. budget to Prof. Stratton for the forthcoming fiscal period.

Since Hunter expects to spend Wednesday, March 14, in New York City,
Verzuh asked him to check on the availesbility of the Proceedings of the third
SHARE meeting, Distribution #%s 1 - 11, respectively, as well as other
information regarding UAC SAP program. |

The next meeting of this group will be hotd in Room 6-109 at 2:00 Pele
on Tuesday, March 20, 1956.

- . F. M. Verzuh
FMV:nb March 14, 1956


