MASSACHUSETIS INSTITUTE OF TECENOLOGY
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

March 1, 1957

 

TO: Dr. F. L. Foster
Room 5-105
FRQM: P. M. Morgse and F. M. Verzuh

SUBJECT: Continuation gz.COntract NSori06001

 

In accordance with our conversations with the following QONR
representatives, :

Dr. F. Joachim Weyl, Director of Math Sciences Division,
Washington, D. C,

Dr. Arthur Grad

Dr. Carl F. Mukenhaupt, Chief Scientist, ONR, Boston

we recommend that you apply to ONR for an extension of the existing
contract (Project 6345) without additiomal funds for the fiscal period
1957-58.

Because of the delay in the completion of the new

Earl T. Compton Laboratory, it will be impossible to install the

IBRYM Type 704 Electronic Data Processing Machine at M.I.T. on HMarch 1

as we originally scheduled. As a result, it will be impossible for us

to release our uge of the Whirlwind Computer on June 30, 1937 as
 originally scheduled. It is very important that we have adequate time

to install the 704 and make the necessary conversion of programs from

Whirlwind to the 704 language. This means that there will be some period

of time during which dual operation of both the 704 and Whirlwind Computers

is in effect. It is diXficult to determine in advance the exact terming-

tion date of our uge of the Whirlwind facillty. However, as we discussed

at our meeting, we shall notify you of the termination date as soon as

this information becomes available.

, Extending the present contract without additional funds for the
above-requested 12-month period will permit us to effect a smooth
trangsition from the Whirlwind machine to the 704; furthermore, it will
provide us with the necessary time to prepare the final supmary report
foy this contract.

Since we are not requesting any additional funds for this
extension, we have not prepared the usual estimated budget reguirements.
This is, of eourse, in accordance with our discusgsicns al our meeting
on Thursday. Tebiyuary 21l.

Also, in accord with these discussions, W are currently preparing
o proposal Lo be submittod to ONR for a specific rescarch program, vhich
would bhe oot up ag 8 sepawnte projoct wilhin The new MIT Computallion Center,
designed to meke moxe effective use of the Type 704 machine. This :
proposal will includd irésearch items of a mathematical nature
as we discussed with Weyl. A separate request for (IR