Mr. Pendleton HERRING

see SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL


~ TRIP REPORT

Place Visited: Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine

Persons Seen: Professor Reinhard L.. Korgen, Department of Math
| Professor Richard Chittim , -Pepaztment of Math

This call was made on Thursday morning, September 19. I learned that
~ Professor Chittim has had p end tho DATATS experience on the IBM 704, the
Remington Rand UNIVAC I and the DAT TRON. Most of this experience

was gained through summer employment.

Professor Korgen will leave for Denmark in Javuary to lecture there for
a semester on Operations Research and Linear Programming. He plans
to visit the MIT Computation Center some time this fall to find out what
has been and is being done in this field.

Last year a seminar on the 704 was held by Professor Chittim and
Professor Lacosce. This year a Computation Library will be set up in
Room 109 of the mathematics classroom building.

No one at Bowdoin has any concrete plans for writing a program and
making use of the Computation Center at present. If is probably that
during the course of the year, one or two faculty members may decide
to avail themselves of the facilities of the Center. Since the school has
no graduate program, Professor Korgen and Chittim did not believe that
students would make use of the Center.

Professor Korgen reported that about $150 remained in the travel fund
allocated to Bowdoin last year. He requested that it be made available
for use this year. Various faculty members plan to visit the Center and
attend seminars here this year.

J. FF. Blackburn
Educational Co-ordinator

JFB/jeh

ce: Dr, M. A. Shader, WHO
Mr. W. T. Hamlen, Cambridge
Prof. P. M. Morse, MIT
Dr. ¥F. J. Corbato, MIT


TRIP REPORT

Place Visited: Bates College, Lewiston, Maine = STR
| FrYS) cS
Mathematics

Persons Seen: | Professor Karl 5. Woodcock, Department of

This call was made on Thursday afternoon, September 19. There has
been virtually no activity directly associated with the computing field.
Professor Woodcock does not believe that the need for digital computation
on a scale requiring the MIT Computation Center exists at Bates. They
offer no graduate program and the undergraduate curriculum is such that

~ such facilities are outside the scope of their needs. I suggested to him that
there might well be faculty members in various departments who would like
to do research which involved numerical computation. He agreed to
investigate this possibility. iE

Professor Woodcock thought that sometime during the fall term a visit to

the Computation Center by a class (or some representati ves from a class)
might be beneficial to them. I told him we would bé glad to show them the
Center and possibly arrange a demonstration if he would let us know when he
expected to arrive.

J. ¥F. Blackburn

Educational Co-ordinator
JFB/jeh

cc: Dr. M. A, Shader, WHO
Mr. W, T. Hamlen, Caibridgs
Prof. P. M. Morse, MI
Dr. F. J. Corbato, MIT

September 23, 1957


TRIP REPORT

Place Visited: University of Maine, Orono, Maine

Persons Seen: Professor W. S. Evans, Dean

gs ~~ Professor W. M. Libby, Electrical Engineering
Professor W. J. Creamer, Electrical Engineering
Professor F. L. Lamouan, Mathematics |
Professor M. McNary, Engineering Graphics

This call was made on Friday afternoon with Mr. J. T. Flynn, IBM Bangor.
The above named Professors were met in a group. Dean W. 8. Evans has
replaced former Dean Ashly S. Campbell. Apparently, very little informa-
tion has gotten to the department heads although literature concerning all

activities of the Computation Center was mailed to Dean Campbell. The

people with whom 1 talked knew very little about the Computation Center.
They all showed a great deal of interest and inasmuch as a graduate
program is offered at University of Maine, I feel sure that a great deal of
activity in the computing field is warranted. Dean Evans asked about getting
people trained. They have just missed the regular annual class at MIT.

I told him we could undoubtedly arrange to get some one from Maine
University enrolled in a cour se (I was thinking of a course for customers by
IBM) here in Boston. Another possibility was discussed - that of sendin

an instructor to Maine for two weeks provided a large group (20 or ho
was interested in taking the course. :

Dean Evans was also interested in details about the IBM Assistantship
program. All these thinge have been sent to the University but evidently
did not get disseminated.

We will send additional copies of the information on Research Assistants
to Dean Evans and I shall also send him a schedule of 704 classes to which
he may send a representative. |

J. F. Blackburn
Educational Co-ordinator
JE¥B/jeh
cc: Dre. M. A. Shader, Q
Mr. W. T. Hamien, Caxibridge
Prof. P. M. Morse, Ml
Dr. F. J. Corbato, MIT

September 23, 1957


