b 5

@

 ——— TT. __
- ~ .
. , -
.

Minutes of Meeting, January 9, 1956
of
Institutional Representatives with IBM and MIT Staff,
to Discuss Plans for the Computation Center.

(Appended sheet gives list of attendees.)

1. Morse and Hurd gave the background of the projected
installation of the IBM 704 and the Computation Center to administer
it. They cmphaslzed that the Center was set up primarily to provide
instruction in the use of high speed computers in sclenee, engineering,
and business and that both operating procedures and financial support
wlll be planned to further this aim. Each participating school will
be expected to contribute on three levels: one senlor faculty
Institutional Representative, who would act as official coordinator

between his In=ztiftution and the Computation Center on policy and

financial mstters; one or more faculty members who have an active
interest in learning about machine techniques, who would carry on
research at the Center and training in machlne use at his college and
who would be appointed a Research Associate of the Center (some of
these would be financed, In part, Dy che 15M Research Fund of the
Center, others would be supported by other projects by their colleges);
and one or-more Research Assistants, graduate students who would spend
part of their time at the Center helping program and run off problems
and who usually, though not necessarily, would receive atipends from
the IBM Research Fund, vila thelr college. The yearly amount for
awards for Research Assoclateshlips and Research Assistantships for

the participating institutions 1s F30,000, an equal amount is for

MIT. These awards will be made by the Center, after consultation
with the Liaison Committee, which will be made up of scme of the
Institutional Representatives, each serving for a limited time, so

as to have rotation of representation.

2. Verzuh and Hunter described the installation, whieh is
expected to be placed in the new Compton Laborgtory the first part
of 1957.

2. Morse passed around propecsed drafts of notices concerning
the opportunitles for Research Assistantships and Assotliateships,
which the Institutional Representatives could distribute to the

interested departments In their institution. It is hoped that
decisions could be made, this spring, for appolntments beginning
next fall.


4. Hurd and Mason dlscussed three sorts of training courses
in 704 use which would be available this summer; a special course,
given the latter part of the summer, of two weeks at IIT 2nd one
week at IBM in New York (tuition-free but living expenses to be paid
by the participants) open LO any of the three classes of participant;
mentioned in Paragraph 1: severzl regular three-week training rogran
given by IBM in New York during the Summer and next fil iol could
be taken by those participants who eould not ettend the crecial MIT
IBM course; a ten-week summer program at IBM in New York, “nvolving
training and a so aszls¥ing in machine operation, the partic: ants
belng paid a medest stipend for the ten weeks' work (particip-nts im
this program will be chosen by IBM from those Research Associates
and Assistants applying.)

~ 5. Morse said the Lislson Committee would be formed before the
end of February. It was Suggested that it would be desirable to
have one more meetlng of all of the Institutional Representatives
this spring, in addition to whatever meetings of the smaller Lisison
Comnittee might be necessary. : |

6. Morse asked the Representatives present to write him, within
& week, to . comment on the following subjects:

a. Sugzestions for wording the Announcements of Assistant-
ships and Associateships (see paragraph 3) to be printed up soon,
whieh could best fit the situation in thelr own college. Estimates
of the number of sueh announcements they would need for use in their
college.

: b. Estimates as to possible applications for Asslstentships
and Associateships which micht come from thelr college this spring.

Cc. Estimates as to how many from their college who would
be Interested in each of the three training brograms (mentioned in
paragraph 4) whieh are planned for this summer.

d. Any other Suggestions for procedures or activities which
would further the educational aims of the Computation Center.

fT. Pamphlets relating to the operation of the TO% machines
and concerning Programming codes for the 704 were distributed to
those present. Truman Hunter, who is to be the IBM representative
in Cambridge to work with the Center, said extra copies and other
material could be obtained DY writing him at the IBM Office, 363 Third
St., Cambridge, Mass. Morss 381d that he and Hunter would be glad to
visit the participating colleges this spring, to dlsecuss the program
further, If this is congldered desirable.

ge a A
5%) a AD D i, \W a
\ PON W\ > \ A VR
rr ye.

—


o

TES pa fo
"ese;  C

Tune

8 £ we

January 9, 1956

—- —=24t ional Representatives
Be oy 4 - 2 OP > 2
Bors oD College . Rev. Wm, C, Guindon, Chmn. Phygies Dept,
Zeus J 4.1) w= Pro f 5 Re Inhard Korgen, Ma th . Dept .
w "Pa ow . 4 ~ . = No rd : <
ore WIL Jr Vers ] ¢ y= Pr of 5 vin - Prager, Head, Div. af 4 pp i Ms th.
| @ of gm 2 " mn ae 2 ‘ as
alimout] ~ Prof. Jenn McCarthy, of the Math, vept,
I Ledbury Deen J onn G Bowker
¢ 1&8 ee Pn a yy : ree Tn o™ > A
wi LC I" of iv] K eo M E 1} Chm 0 LoX en L
: Varsity. Dean Legn o i2318Man, Chan. gg pt
LW HiAV@ral v= Jean Leonard C. Mead
f =") ~ to C 4 » a A ‘1 2 ~ .
\ 8430 Prof, Julian Knipp, Chm. Phys Dept.)
J] ~ r = 2 ~ a 3
Wesleyan of. Hing Tong, ppop. of Math
in the place Of Prof. v. g. Eaton, Chmn. Phys .Dept
Welles or =~ Prof. Janet Guernsey, Dept. of Physies
Williams > Prof, Donald E, Ri ehmong | Camp , Dept. Math.
Worcester = Prof. RB N, Cobb, Dept. of Math,
ale University = Prof. AL J, van ¥oerksom, Dept. of Astron,
0M Representatives.
Ss — rea ———— I EL So
Cuthbert Hund, Dir .Date :  22VU ad iso; LV ¢ N.Y.(C )
G. Truman Hunter, 11a 130n witr MIT C omp. Centers L363 .2 St. Cambridge
D. R. Mason, Mr. Data Process ing Center (N.Y. office
W. C.- B; 2ndt, Mgr, Univ, Programs (N.Y. Uilice)
> g a T h NT Tm) 9) . A ’ 1 (lz m le 1 4 a & - Of & ie e
Re PI'@s er ablves
| eo : Pr W's Office
. n ] . Cle te
™ ¥ { AY) -— - Lp v v 8 & a.
» | Services


