0 rec ) 4,

CC=33% Page 1 of 4
COMPUTATION CENTER

llagsachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, llassachusetts

To: 704 Users

From: F, C, Helwig

Date: July 24, 1957

SUBJECT: A USERS' ABSTRACT OF THE POST-HORTHEM PROGRAM

Introduction

The IIT post-mortem program is a selective memory
print-out or punch-out routine. The core memory ranges to be
recorded and the word-forms to be produced are specified using
either symbolic request cards or she computer console, This
memo describes only request cards, (1)

The post-mortem program is recorded on the systems
magnetic tape unit (MT1) and is entered by the load tape button
or by a programmed load tape sequence:

(REW 1)
RTB 1
CPY 0
.CPY 1
TTR O

The deck of request cards to be processed is placed in the on-
line card reader and is read in by the post-mortem program,

Three additional magnetic tape units may be required
by the program:

(1) MT2 is required if results for off=line printing
are produced,

(2) MT3 is required if results for off=1ine punching
are produced.

(3) LTS is always required for temporary storage.

The post-mortem program does not rewind 1°72 or MT3 so

a
(1) Control of the program from the computer console is deseribed
in CC=23,


ANNES

CC=35 Page 2

“J

that post-mortem results can be ganged with other output from a |
users’ prograil.

Request Cards

The SHARE card format is used for request cards which
are identified by the letters, I'MR, in their operation field. The
variable field of the card must contain four expressions separated
by commas and terminated by a blank column,

The first two expressions give the initial and final
addresses of the range in memory to be printed or punched. These
can consist of any legal SAP expressions and may include symbols,
The user my also specify octal integers in such expressions by
immediately preceding the integer with a division sign, @+80,

/1000 = 1000, = 512, 4

The user should note that this facility does not exist in SAP
language.

The third expression designates the mode in which words
are to be recorded and must be one of the following abbreviations

 

 

FLO Floating-point numbers.

FIX Fixed-point numbers,

INT Integers (decimal).

SYM Instructions with symbolic addresses.
ABS Instructions with absolute addresses.
OCT Octal numbers.

BCD Binary-coded-decimal.

BIN Absolute binary cards,

The output format implied by these various modes 18
jdentical to the input language used by the SHARE Assembly Program.

 

The fourth expression specifies the output device to be
used in recording the words and must be one of the following abbre-

viations
NPR On-line printer
NFU On-line punch
IPR Off-line printer

FEU 0 f£f-1line punch


CC=00 ‘Pare 3

Scaling Fixed-Point Numbers

If fixed-point numbers (FIX) are requested the user may
specify (if he wishes) a decimal scale-factor, x, and a binary
seale-factor, y, where 0< y£ 35, by writing

F IXExBy

to designate the mode, In this caso the post-mortem progran mul-
tiplies each number by

10°F o oY

before recording it and appends a suitable correction factor which
in SHAR: notation would be

ExBy
thus the fraction, F, appears in the form
(F « 100% o 2Y) Ex By
The special case
x= 0 and y = 35
ia detscted by the program and such numbers appear ag SAD integers.
Remarks Cards
Any information following the terminating blank column
in the variable field of a PMR card is considered to be a remark

and will appear as such immediately preceding the first line of
output resulting from the request.

The user may also insert remarks cards (specified by the
letters, REM, in the operation field) before PMR cards in the re=
quest deck. Each REM card is recorded just preceding the first
1ine of output from the next PMR card in the request deck,

Remarks cards can be used to label results.
Termination Cards

Request decks must be terminated by a termination card
consisting of one of the SAP instructions

tv

WwW
gh Oh

TRA Xx =,
TR xX X
HT Xx





