*
<3=

which are not genersclly available to theundergraduate. It soon became apparent
that our graduating szeniors were entering certain industrial fields with little
or no knowledge of computing devices which were in current use in their field.
As a consequence, some of these graduates developed a "fear of
compliters’’ based on a combination of porionsliignoranco of the capsbilities
of computers ani an erronecus conception of computers as '"'mythical brains."
This latter imprassion is still fostered by the popular press and a few
gsensastionalists in the field. : _
It is obvious that such misconceptions must be corrected at the
undergraduate level end the folloWwing ideas implanted:

1. Present-day academic, research, and professional horizons are
expanding very rapdily--computing devices are an essential
tool which sllow the worker to complete his task in the least
amount of time available.

2. Certein "older techniques"” - grephical methods of problem
Splution, ete., - are fine techniques to be acquainted with.
However , many of these are actually outmoded by the availability
of present-day computers.

3. Students must learn to think in terms of the capabilities of
present-day and future computers. The ' language' of computers
is becoming increasingly important to everyone.

4. The principles of computers and their effective application
is actuslly very simple -- provided it is presented properly.

5. Computers are not a panacea for all difficult and troublesome
problems. Learn and realize their respective limitations.

It is quite &pparent that the above ideas must be taught to the studemt. The
next question is: How can this teaching best be done?

Method of Teaching MACHINE-AIDED ANALYBIS
With the ebove meeds of the undergraduate computer training program
in mind, the following preliminary outline of the subject was made in 1953:

Preliainarz Outline

1. A survey of the types of mathematical problems which arise in
engineering analysis,

2. A survey of the available computing techniques and aids which
are capable of solving these problems,

3. A brief introduction to numerical anslysis,

4. Solution of ordinary differentisl equations with given initial
conditions--analog and digital metaods of solution,