M.I.T. Computation Growth Page 2.

into this time, but the New England Colleges, starting from a
much lower initial usage have all but filled their half of
the machine as well.

Before we explore our future oonputational requiramonts,
it 1s extremely important to closely examine the causes for
the growth in usage. Figure (1) illustrates that M.I.T's
usage has steadily grown until it has effectively plateaued
on the total time available to it. The corresponding curve
for New England Colleges, Figure (2), has followed a similar
pattern, but with a smaller growth rate. A much more illu-
minating picture is seen if we note that for the past two
years, M.I.T. has had an almest constant number of users,
about 200 of them, in the sense of active problems. Over the
same period, M.I.T's use of machine time has continuously
risen until it is now at saturation. An analysis of the dis-
tribution of problems sizes for the period January-June 1959,
Figure (3), shows that the large bulk of users are taking
small amounts of total time for their computatlion and are
thus accouting for only a small percentage of the total load.
The bulk of machine time is going to "larger" users who com-
prise a small percentage corresponding to the total number of
users. The major growth in machine usage is thus due to the
larger users (who, in general, correspond to M.I.T. research
groups rather than thesis users) who are requiring increas-
ingly large amounts of time for their work. They are also
the hardest hit by curtallments in time.

One possible explanation for the relatlively small num-
ber of users (out of the total M.I.T. population) is that as
of yet, only a small percentage of the M.I.T. Faculty are
directly availing themselves of the computer. As more and
better programming languages, in the sense of being more ef--
ficient and closer to the language of a specific fileld, are
devised, faculty perticipation is bound to improve particu-
larly in departments where the impact of computers has yet
to be felt. Further, until recently, computer programming