T T A —————

g
L

A D B INSTITUT FOR AUTOMATISK
DATABEHANDLING OCH
INSTITUTET NUMERISK ANALYS

CHALMERS TEKNISKA HOGSKOLA
GIBRALTARGATAN 5P - GOTEBORG S
TELEFONER 205209, 205248, 205258

lassachusetts Institute of Technology
Digital Computer Laboratory

211 lass. Ave.

Cambridge 39

Mass.,

UeS. A,

Gothenburg, 22nd Nov., 1957

 

Gentlemen:

This fall the Scandinavian ADP Institute was established in CGothenburg,
Sweden, as a part of the School of Technology at the Gothenburg University.
The most important task of the ADP Institute is to give university training
in Automatic Data Processing for scientific as well as commercial programming.
The digital computer now in work is the medium size magnetic drum computer
Alwac III E, '

As we start the first regular university ADP training in Scandinavia we will
draw on the experiences in the U.,5. It would be very valuable to benefit
from your work in this field. Such material that you feel will facilitate
our training will be much appreciated.

The research groups now working on programming projects here are the

following:
Communications Engineering Group (Professor Henry Wallman)
Klectrical Power Engineering Group (Professor S. von Zweygbergk )
Electronics Engineering Group (Professor O. Rydbeck§
Bridge Construction Group (Professor S.0. Asplund)
Ship Construction Group Professor A. Svennerud)
Chemistry Group (Professor C. Brosset)
Statistics Group Professor H, Hyrenius)
Operations Research, Inventory '
Control and Production Planning (Civilekonom B. Greko)

The progress of these groups will be published in English. If you wish we
will send you these free as they develop. Any of your applications that you
think would be interesting for these groups are welcomed,

After the few months we have been operating our computing laboratory we start
to realize the great importance this new tool has for our scientific and in-
dustrial progress. We feel that this is an area where the exchange of infor-
mation within the framework of free nations will be very worthwhile,

Yours very truly

    
 

ocagliinavian ZDP Institute Address: Gibraltargatan 5 P
Gothenburg

Sweden

Bert Greko
President