—-———""’ﬁ

EDITORIAL

23-1

ceaselessly into the branches

ent day labors.
HA. H. HECH'I‘

 

nourishment r'
and leaves of pr ..

 

 

APrnanx

Excerpt from Silvanus 1’. Thompson: The Life
of William Thomson, Baron Kelvin of L
London, Mai-.\Iillan, 1910, vol. 1, p. 151» .

The doctrine of electric images, several times

mentioned, seems to have been in Thomson’s mind
before he left Cambridge; but it developed itself
with surpr' ing rapidity during his sojourn in Pai ,
and shortlv after his return to Cambridge he coin-
lllllllit‘utedi it to Liouville in three letters, the sub-
stance of which was printed in the Journal de
mathematiqiies in October 18-15 and June 18th.
This method, which even now is not adequately
appreciated, is so elegant, and so fruitful in its
applications, that it merits some attention from
the scientific reader. It furnishes a most cogent
illustration of the value of that which has been
aptly termed the cro -fertilization of the sciences,
the value of introduc g into one branch of science
the concepts that hay ‘ 'isen in another. To explain
the concept of electi images, it may he well to
begin with a concrete and familiar c .e of optical
images. Every one knows that if a candle is placed
in front of an ordinary plane inir the image of
it, Seen by looking into the mirror, is, as it were,
another candle of equal size and hrightn with the
first. 'I uated apparently exactly as far behind the
ini or s the ieal candle is in front. In fact, if the
mirror were to he removed from its frame, and a
second candle set in the position where the image
prev " appeared, the amount of illumination
i'eccii ed at any given point in front of the mirror
from the two candles would be identical with the
amount received from the one candle and its image.
The limitations of the frame would prevent the
image, or the substituted candle from be g seen
from ev ' direction, If the ii >r be conceived to
he indeﬁnitely evtenderl, and i frame to he iii-
finitely wide and high, these limi ations would be
removed. If, instead of a plane mirror, a spherical
mirror or silver half were substituted, the image of
a candle I iced in front will appear to he a smaller
candle situated now within the spherical surface,
and at a distance behind the silvered face not equal
to the distance of the candle in front, but mar-er to
the face. The apparent size and distance of this
image can be calculated by easy geometrical “110;;
and again it will he true that if the mirror be re
moved, and there be substituted an equivalent
smaller candle in the place where the image up.
pc. 'ed, the illumination at any point in front will
remain unaltered by such sul itution.

.\‘ow, consider a small in. ilated conducting

body, such as a small metal sphere, charged with

  

 

.) i.

   

     

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

   

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

positive electricity. If placed in the middle of a
large empty room it‘will proJcct its influence into
tie space around it in radial straight lines, acting
as though the electric charge upon it were concen.
trated at its centre. Now suppose a very large sheet
upper, or some other good conductor of elec.
tr' , to be pl (1 at the Side, of the charged
sphoit, at a short 1 race from i It can he Shown
hat, for all points of the space in front of this
sheet, the sheet acts as an electric inir ; the
effects in this region being the same as if, i the
ab nce of the sheet, there had been a second
2d sphere placed exactly as far behind the
s met as the actual sphere in front of it. But there
is this curious pccllliai ' that in order to procure
an equivalent effect this image splici-e’ would have
to he charged with an equal quantity of ncgolz'cc
eectricity. The ‘image’ of 'i positive charge is a
negative one, and vice ve a. If we suppose the
siect removed and the ‘image' replaced by a small
:ctlial sphere. negatively electrified to an equal
teg‘rce, the ' ace between and around the spheres
will be trave ed by a system of curved lines of
eectric force emanating from one and terminating
at the other. If we remove the second sphere and
replace the sheet, the lines of fort . in front, emanat—
ing from the positive sphere, will still cur\ round
exactly as before until the reach the sheet. The
s ieet will, in fact, receive (by induction) a negative
(

s

t

of

 

 
      

   

 

 
 

 

    

   

 

 

 

   

 

 

 
  

 

,. ; and this charge will be distributed over its
u ice at ording to a certain law, the density of
ie charge being strongest at the point of the
surface nearest to the sphere, and weaker over the
surface outw: ds from this center. This use illus-
trates not merely the conception of electi images,
but also the much more refined conception which
Thomson had arrived at in 1842 (and Green before
him) of the replacing of an electrified body or point
by an electric charge distributed over a surface in
such a w s to he in equilibrium. If, to take
another c so, the pos ive electric point charge is
placed in front of a argc uninsulateil metal sphere.
to act as a spherical mirror, there will again be an
electric ‘iinage’ formed within the sphere, and this
‘image’ will be negative; but its distance behind
the reflectim surface will not be equal to the dis—
tance of the electric ‘object’ in front; and though
simple rules can be given for finding the position
and magnitude of the electric ‘iinage’, thcsc rul :
differ from those for the finding of the conjugate
images in opt' .\n c cal image is. then, an
cloctrificd point, or _stem of points, on one side
of a surface, which would produce on the other
side of that su ' e the same electii if action which
the actual electi ication of that surface really does
produce. The method of images can bc extended to
many applications. For instance, if an elcctrificd
point i~ situated betwecn two parallcl conducting
sheets, not only will it generate a prim: 'y ‘image'

 

 

   
   

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDITORIAL

in each sheet, but each primary iin
a set'mitlul image of if 1f iIi the
these will generate tor y images,
inﬁnite row, exactly as a luminous
tween two mutually facing iniiror' The re" lt'
eleﬂtl l'stributions can be calculated hsu lug
Superposition of the distributions equivaleht tife
the ‘ CSsivc, members of the s ' i 0
9193 ed point is placed anywhere between t‘
indefinitely extended planes that meet one an: th-
like the two leaves of a sheet of paper there) i'eli
be a number of images symmetrical i itu'tte‘ll'f
the angle botwcon the planes is 90° or 60° in l 1.
integral fraction of 3(i(1°. This, ' Thomson poin‘ltml
out. is the, analogue of the optical tov called tlm
krleidoacotc. 1“urthcr, if two electrified sober}e
that are not small are brought near to one a'niotheerS
reacting on one another’s ch: go so that the dis:
ti'ihution of charges over the .pheres is distorted
out of uniformity, the distribution of the Chartres
and the resulting force of attraction or repulsion
can be calculated by considering the whole effect
as a succession of images that are superposed on
one another.

age will generate
other sheet, and
and so on in an
point does he

   

 

 
 

   

'ies. .\guin, if an

 

 

     

REFERENCES

 

‘PLANUK, .\f.: Iieher die Potentialdifterenz
zwischen zwei \"ei'rliiiiiit<>ii Lo'sungen biiiarer
Electrolyte. Ami. d. 1’1 u. (‘liem., Veiie
Folge, 40: 5m, 1890.

2HiaLiiHoi/i‘., vox 11.: Fiber einige Gesetze
der Vertheihing eleli ier Strome in Kor-
perlichen Leitern, init .\nwendung auf die
thierrelelttrischen \ ucho. .\nn. d. Phys. u.
Chem 89: 211, :.i._ is a. '

“Ti-ionsux, \\'. (Lord Kel n): Reprints of
Papers on Electrostatits and Magnetism.
,Ed. 2, London, .\IacIIillaii, 1834.

‘Wnsov, l". N, Jonxs'ros', 11‘. 1)., [to men,
F. ., l‘lltl._»\NGl:}lt, H, Kosswn. ‘, C 13.,
linear, ll. H., (‘o'rinii, N DE ()LIVl-IIHA, \I.,
Sca 1t. Bwiiiti‘r, P. : The pr ordiiil

. electi'orariliogiam. .\ni. Heart J. 27: it], 1944,

°BA\'LEY, It. 11.: On certain applications of
modern oloctrot.irdiographic theory to the
interpretation of electrocardiograms which
indicate myocardial disoasc. :\m. Heart J.

769, 19-13.

.N. .l,: lClelttrobiologic. Die W ‘en—

schaft .\‘annnluiig naturu ,nschafthclier

 

   

  

 

  
 
 
 

 
   

 

     

 
  
       

 

235

I _ .
Iigili.:llui:]i;i(f:llli‘ein.atis‘clierMonograpliien 9-1 Heft
A V l .0] , v- . l t I - I I
‘“(NJ1)HYJ1€\',L.’T\. film: and Son. 1912-

mmwm R 7‘ ‘, H. H. .\Nn (‘iinis'i'o-
. . . Membrane resting and

:1 ion ' . ‘
potentials of Single cardiac muscle

fibers of the f' r '
164:307, 195110;; \Ontl'lcle. .\ni. J. Physio].

“ Damian, .\f. H.

 

  

AND Wen)

  
 

. . . 4 8.: (I ‘ '.

xile‘stiiililgtzl:iirlll action poten l recorileduiiiiffi
' ce u: ' ‘ '

74,1951‘ n electiode. J. Physio]. 115:

n
Herman, B. F. and SUCKLiNo, E. E. Cellular

potentia: ’ - -
m J, Pli)’siiil.ni7ii];tm;3t7"iii-133mm" hearts. .\ni.
. , . .

Joif, N1 1“ H-i EWING, II. \‘n l’oLiss n
A,. .1.. The Kinetic B i
Biology. New York “ﬁlasis of V.\Iolecul
chapter 11. , my and boast

‘1 1‘ Iii-NUS, F. N. AND BAYL
for field of an excentr
mogenous spherical con

)2 culation 1: 84, 1950.

MCFl-ilf, R. aND JoHV‘s‘roN, F. 1).: Electro
caidiograplnc lea Circulation 8‘ 554
1953; 9: 255, 868, 1954. ' '

‘3 ll'iLsON, F. N., M
P. S; The (I
and of injury displayed by he:
and other excitable ’ i
Press, Univeisity of Mic
tific Series 10: 1933.

“CRANK, \V. H. .\ND new, 11.: A stlldv of
the electric field "ounding active heart
muscle. Heart 14: 71, 1927.

..0N, C. V.: The effectof the ﬁnite bound: v
on potential distributions in volume my
ductois. Circulation Research 3: 236, I” ,

1“ Bou'I'Hiiovn, .I. it, Cur: iv, E. C. .\Nl) hIA HE,
R.: .\n electrolytic tank for the ineasiircment
of stcad' fate response, t' 'iellt respon
and allie’l properties of iietwoi s
llng. 96: l 3, 19451.

‘7 I’m "r, R. D. AND Vitaxcn, 11.: The iinine‘li-
ate electrocanIiographi effects of ril't‘ullh

'hcil myocardial injuries. .\iu, Heart J., 32:

, 194a

\. \f,: 0n the motion of two splicrcs in

a ﬂuid. Tr. Ro Soc, 171: " INSO.

sov, R,L.. lll)(i1“|tllt. \' ginibus l’uer—

 

 

   

 

   

I’, R. II.: The elec-
ic dipole in a hoe
ducting medium. (‘ir-

 
  
     

t muscle
I'nii .\1i i,

gun Studi

 

   

 

    

my

 

   

      

. J. Inst. liloc,

 

 

 
  

 

    

 

‘0 Si
is'pic and other l‘apcis. New York, Scrihiicr,
1907, p. 170.