-2-

Professors Reissner and Lin were requested to carry this opinion
back to the Mathematics Department and to suggest that the Mathe—
matics Department diseuss such a course to be given by Professor
Hildebrand next fell. ‘

There was also discussion concerning a second term
continuation of this wroposed course. Professor Hildebrand had
not gotten far along ' his planning and was not at all sure that
he would be ready tc *e a second term next year. After some
discussion with the Committee, however, he outlined a tentative
catalogue description for a possible second»term course, "Numerical
Analysis 11“” This also is appendedo It was suggested and agreed
that further discussion concerning this second—term course should
take place before any final action is taken; for example, it is
not clear how this suggested second term may overlap a possible
second—term course suggested by Dr. Grosch of the Whirlwind Pro-
Ject.

  

Caldwell pointed out that the Kopal project at present
being run by Dr. Jacehia has a number of items owned by the
Center of Analysis, among them being a number of deck computing
machines. He suggested that these be checked over before the
Jacchia project moved to Harvard and that these machines might be
made available for mixteuer laboratory course was to go along with
the course in ﬁumer‘ Analysis. Mr. Frank Verzuh, subsequent to
this meetingﬂ sent 6* r the inventory with Jacchia, and has supplied
Morse with a list 0 the machines available. (1 Monroe, 8 Merchants,
and 1_National Cash ‘ ister Differencing Machine). Verzuh has been
asked to take care his equipment for the time being until a
decision on the lab ‘* come to. There is also a library of
tables and texts on comput 43 which will be held for future disposi-
tion.

 
   
 
   
    
  

The next ‘tting is to be held on April 16, at 3 p.m.
Further discussion future courses in this field, and a possible
discussion of problems in GeOphyeics or Metallurgy may be on the
agenda.

  

ixlagaﬁ‘x %M
ii}. l‘ll . Morse

 
 
 

Meeting Date”
(Dictated: Hp