IRIP REPORT

TO: Dr. M. A. Shader FROM: IBM Office

MIT Computation Center
PLACE VISITED: Tufts University

PERSONS SEEN: Professor L. C. Mead DATE: December 5, 1957
Dean of School

Professor Kenneth Champion
Physics Department

Miss Florence Gray
Psychology Department

Mr. Frank Jones
Psychology Department

Miss Gray showed me results of a program she had assisted in running at the
MIT Computation Center. The title of the problem was "Frequency Analysis
Electroencephalograms and Correlation of Components with Three Action
Times''. In plain English, they are making a study of the brain waves of
individuals both during waking hours and sleeping hours and, subsequently,
analyzing the data which they so obtain. |

Proiessor Jones is making a study of the movements of individuals in walking,
arising from a sitting to standing position, etc. He will probably at some
later date collaborate with a member of the Mathematics Department in obtain-
ing equations representing the data which he is compiling. At such time, he
will probably have use for the Computation Center in completing the sclution

to this problem.

Professor Champion of the Physics Department has had the 704 programming
course and collaborated with a graduate student of his in writing a rather
substantial program which was checked out on the GE 704 in Lynn prior to the
installation of the 704 here at MIT. He was at that time making a study of
"Electron Density in 2 Microwave Discharge Near a Region of Plasma
Resonance’. This graduate student with whom he worked has subsequently

been hired by GE. Prof. Champion is now beginning work on a problem in trans-
port phenomena in ionized gas. He has considerable theoretical physics to
compiete before the problem will be ready for solution on the 704. However,

he does have very definite plans to solve it at the Computation Center at MIT
when this stage of progress is reached. At the time I visited Prof. Champion

he was tutoring a student who is a Junior at Tufts in computing techniques.

He would like very much to teach a regular programming course if the administra-
tion at Tufts is willing to put it into the regular college curriculum. I will
suggest this to Dean Mead when I talk with him again tomorrow at the Institutional
Representatives meeting at MIT.


“le

Miss Gray estimated that problem which she was able to solve at the
Computation Center in 45 minutes of machine time would have taken
her about nine months to solve by other means.

J. FF, Blackburn

JFB/jeh
cc: Mr. W. FF, McClelland, Fastern Region
Mr. W. T. Hamlen, bridge

Prof. P. M. Morse, MI
Prof. F. J. Corbato, MIT


