=r Te n-ne Be ATI TREN rr £7 he UD Th. We TOR. -
. \

 

Lg : IT pdt vee eben

31 August 1956

Dy. Edwin Eopley

International Business Machines Corporation
590 Madison Avenue

New York 22, New York

Dear fd:

During the 70L course here at M.I.T.; I discussed with Dr. Hunter and
yourself the possibility of a fellowship and computer time being available
to Mr. Pleter Wiersema, graduate etudent at the University of Utrecht in
the Netherlands. I spent the academic year 1954<55 at Utrecht at the
invidetion of Professor J. The G. Overbeek, setting up a program of digital
computer applications in the field of Colloid Science. During this year,
Wiersems was my assistant, end after my departure, he has carried on the
research as part of his Phe. program. He is one of the first Dutch
scientists not himself on the staff of a computer center to learn coding
and to apply the computer to his field, the computer used being the AREA
of the Mathematical Center in Amsterdam. It would be to Wiersema's advantage
to spend a year here at M.I.T. getting acquainted with more mivenced computers,
specifically with the 70h. In turn, I.B.M. would benefit from the training
a Buropean scientist could get here in applying a 70L to his problem.
Haturally, this communication is a preliminayy oney I would have to check
with Professor (Overbeek as to whether he would approve of having Wiersema
do part of his PhoDe work at MeleTe I know that in the past he has been
happy to make such arrvangersnis. 4s a member of {he Electrical Engineering
Faguliy, I would be very agreeable to supervise the work done here. In
order to spare him possible dissppointment, though, I will not apprvach
Werseoma until I hear from you regarding the feasibility of a fellowship.

Briefly, the prcblems involved concern the sclution of a considerable
number of simultaneous differential equations, some non-linear, by relaxation
methods. The physical system consists of a highly charged colleid particles
surrounded by an electrolytic solution, the whole being subjected 0 an
external electric field. When the velocity of a colloid particle in such an
enviroment is measured, the stability of the colddal system can in principle
be predicted, but the calculation invelvad is too complex to be perfoemsd
without electronic computers. The first phase of the program, namely the
calculation of the potential and charge distribution around the particle


Rp

—

=

Dr. Edwin Kopley
Page 2.
31 August 1956
for a wide range of particle radii and potentials in the absence of an
external electric field, has been completed on the ARRA., Subsequent
stapes will strain the facilities of computers of the ARRA class; for a
really significant advance in this field we definitely need a faster and
larger computers

T look forward to hearing whether you believe my proposal feasible.
With kindest regards, as over

Sincerely yours,

Arthur Le. loeb

All/ef
cat Profil G.5. Srowm
Prof. P.Y. Morse


