July 13, 1959

Dr. Arthur Grad
National Sclence Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthur:

This ig in the nature of a progress report concerning
a possible Conference of Directors of university computing
centers, about which I wrote you early last spring.

After I wrote you I wrote to about a dozen directors
of the larger university centers asking for thelr reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
center directors. The answers I regelved were nearly unanimous.
They were not enthusiastic about another permanent organization
in the computer ficld. They agreed there are a number of probe
lems pecullar Co university computing centers which ought to be
talked over in common from time to time. They wondered if
special meetings could be called about the time of an ACM ox
Joint Computer Conference or whethar one or two single confers
ences would not accomplish what was needed. Several of the
letters mentloned specific problems of interest, such as the
problem of financing the computing center while still keeping
it avallable for students and faculty, also the questions of
academic standards and the status of research on machines.

Last month I attended a confercnee galled by IBM at
Poughkeepsie for the directors of university computing centers
using IBM equipment. About 30 of the 85lmown directors of col-
lege computing centers were there, mostly directors of centers
having 0650's. We had an evening scesion concerning this same
problem. There again, the feeling wos that 1t was premature to
talk about a permanent organization. However, I found a rmuch
greater need for general discussion and mutual agreement on
various matters among this group which represented the smaller
and newer computing centers rather thon the representatives of
older and larger centers to whom I had written before. This
group felt the need of support for thelr plans and suggestions
for what are wise and unwise means of finaneinz and help in
determining procedures and academic standards. After an
evening's discussion we set up an Informal planning group with

a i an,


Dr. Grad =e July 13, 1959

myself as chairman, Professor Walter Freiberger of the Depart-
ment of Mathematics at Brown University as seeretary, and other
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next: year or two it would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to
college computing centers. The discussions could focus around
four general arcass

1. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "sold" and
vhat fraction should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for rescarch in the use of machines?
What are the opportunities for theses in thesc flelds, how are
such theses to bo supervised and how arc degrees to be granted
en the basis of these theses?

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be
offered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of other appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual
content, intimately involving computing machines, are being
given and in what departments?

4. Computing service to university departments: Who in the
college should be given "free time"? Vhat priority system can
be set up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between free and paying users? Vhat are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory committees to administer such a
service program?

It was felt that a conference on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would result
in a report embodying suggestions and mutual agreements on these
matters, would be of very great help to many directors of college
computing centers, particularly those just beginninz or plonning
te begin. It would secm to me that NSF would also be interested
in the results of such a conference, Certainly the question of
how college computing centers fit into their academic structure
and how they can help more completely to educate scientists and
engineers is something which has been a subject of discussion in
various parts of NSF to my knowledge. My question to you, there-
fore, 18 an exploratory onc: Is NSF interested in such a confer-
ence? Ig it interested enough to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, according to

the latest 1ist of Professor Reeves of Ohic State. Ve had thought


=P July 13, 1959

 

 

of inviting each of these director
9, 80 that there probabl

Pou be betuoen 40 and 50 attending. The Gtbensone. inl be
SS Fay probably more representative, of course » if all or
pa z 5 the travel expenses of the conferees could be financed.
> 8 conference were to get out a report which could be used

y the various directors, present ang prospective, and would be
avallable to NSF if so desired, then the editing, preparing and
publication of this report would need to be financed. My letter
at present is just to sce if NSF is likely to be interested in
such a eonference, if they would be willing to finance some part
of 1t and, if so, what we should do about it next. I will be
away in Europe during August and the first part of September so
I willl not be on hand at the meeting mentioned in the enclosed
notice. If you have questions which should be brought up to
this meeting, I suggest you send them to Professor Freiberger.
In any case, I will be back by September 10 and would be glad to
hear your comments then or before I leave on August 5. I think
it 1s about time that this growing field of university computer
research, education and service be discussed in terms of its
broader implications and necessitles. I hope you agree.

Yours,

Phillip M. Morse

Director

PVM es uh


