DCL~146 - 3 Page 1 of 9

Digital Computer Laborato:
Massachusetts Iksti 1tc of T enghlng“
Cambridge 39, Massachusaitis

Tos P. M, Morse
Froms: Arnold Siegel and Frank Helwig
Date: October 16, 1956

Subjects A _PROPOSAL FOR AN ALGEBRATC COMPTLER TO BE USED ON THE NIT 70/

Introduction

The essential purpose of any automatic ccding system is to
simplify the use of the computer for which it is deeignsdo The first
such systeme were concerned almost exelusively with machine code -
utilizing mnemonic abbreviations for machine instructions and decimal
notation for mechine numbers. Later systems introduced such coding
aide as symbolic addressing, preset parameters and automatic compiling
end assembly of subroutines, but most of them remained oriented about
the computer instruction ae the basic coding toole

At best. the instruction code represents an intermediate
step between the formulation &f a problem and its solutlion on a machine.
In a computer~oriented coding eystem this step is necessary since the
computer langusage (or an approximation to it) is the only one accepted
by the input routines. However, it is not logically a necessary step
since there exist  other langinages and other notations which are more
natural to the originator of the problems The use of such a natural
language is, perhaps, the next step to be taeken in simplifying the use
of the ccmputer

The use of a language reasonably close to that which would

age
be employed in a fiow chart is p“opotﬁd for a future INTT conmpilere
This language Luuld contain mathematical notation, English words and
actual mechine instruciiont. The compiler will translate any meaning-
ful sequence o f expressions in this Juﬂg g” into an equivalent se-
quence of machine instructions and numberg in the computer mcmory
With reasongble hovghu given to the conxpile:-: it is ;m,i« ipated thab

' T fficient as a program

£ 1 e 3 T ey T e e g 4G - S neos

CNe Tregullting program <an be made at least as eill
¢ gyergee human coder.

T TTIAL e Sea A0S

The use of mathematical notation and English words presents
vt least two problems which are not generally present in a compuiser
instruction ccde. The first of these is the lsck of a suitable al-
shabet of input symbols. The inasdequacy of presently available input
preparation devices in this respect i woll known and no attempt 1is
made to resolve this oblom hexre ome sugegestive notation using the

alphabets of existing Input dewices uill be selected. The sscond prob-
Lgm is one of ambiguity. In any langusge used by human beings the same