FEBRUARY 1, 1954

VOL. 37, NO. 2

JOURNAL
of the

American Ceramic Society

PART Il

; Copyright 1954, by The American Ceramic Society

TABLE OF CONTENTS

VOLUME 37, NUMBER 2 FEBRUARY 1, 1954

 

 

Journal of The American Ceramic Society (Part Il) \

14. Thermal Conductivity: I, Concepts of Measurement and Factors Affecting Thermal
Conductivity: of Ceramic Materials. ...« . hieis st o i e 67-72

By W. D. Kingery and M. C. McQuarrie

Thermal Conductivity: | Concepts of Measurement
and Factors Affecting Thermal Conductivity
of Ceramic Materials

by W. D. KINGERY and M. C. McQUARRIE

l) C’lse ()1 I l()late \SI)llGIO](].; e avSmcleliolioNeR{e e/ e el e e oo ra\ s & ie . . . . . . . {'3 !
\3 C(la] < - . . e e/ le. .0 e slielee;'e s 0 I

By Milton Adams and A. L. Loeb

 

'hermal Conductivity

By Malcolm McQuarrie

VIII, A Theory of Thermal

By Arthur L. Loeb

Conductivity

rials [
of Porous Mate-

.....

Porosity ral Pure Oxide M

By W. D. Kingery, J. Francl, R, L. Col

le, and T Vasilos

96-99

......... 107-110

sion. Data at temperatures up to 2000°C. have now become
of practical interest. The desirability of employing higher
temperature levels in heat engines is that the maximum effi-
ciency possible is greatly increased, but in order to design
such engines, accurate data regarding the thermal properties
of construction materials are necessary at elevated tempera-
tures. Refractory oxides, borides, carbides, nitrides, and sul-

fides, for example, are potentially promising materials for such

The investigations reported herein are part of a program
of research undertaken at the Massachusetts Inslitule of
Technology, Cambridge, Mass. For more detailed informa-
tion about the program and about those conducting the inves-
tigalions, see opposite p. 110, this issue.

W
otel
& 16.  Thermal Conductivity - III, Prolate S 1 : ,
BeO, MgO, ThO», and ZrO,. . ... .. I ).h.e.r.o,l(,]al Envelope Method; Data for Al Oy, The laws of heat flow and methods of measuring quently a study of the factors affecting the thermal conduc-
, S R e e 74-79 thermal condu(:.tivity are (.:onsid.e.red. T.he .ef- tivity of refractory materials and the measurement of ther-
J fects of crystalline nature, impurities, lattice im- mal conductivities at elevated temperatures has been under-
perfections, grain boundaries, porosity, mix- taken. The factors which are believed to affect the thermal
17. Thermal Conductivity: TV Koparatis forD oo tures,.and temperature on tl.lermal.conduct.ivity conductivity of refractory .maten'als and the extent of the
Comparative Method - bata o _\YI Oetgrmmmg I'hermal Conductivity by a are discussed. Th(?re are insufficient reliable present knowledge concerning these factors are reviewed in
) y Al203, BeO, and MgO. .. . . .. ; S0-84 data to assess quantitatively the effect of most of this paper.
By J. Francl and W. D. Kingery gt these factors at present, particularly for elevated
- Lemperatures. II. Laws of Heat Flow

184 B hcrma} Conductivity: V, High-Temperature Method : dI : Heat may be thought of as the kinetic energy of motion
nesia, and Beryllia from 1000° to 1800°C... .. and Results for Alumina, Mag- I. Introduction (translational, rotational, or vibrational) of ions or molecules.
By Ml o En RS SR e e S4-88 THE property of thermal conductivity is of importance Although this concept of heat does not lend itself to quantita-
in the application of refractory materials since in many tive manipulation as well as does that of thermodynamics
cases the ability to conduct heat or not to conduct heat (where heat is defined as the amount of energy required to
19, Thermal Conductivity: V] Determinat; 3 =2 is one of the primary functions of the refractory. The ther- raise the temperature of a standard substance a definite
velope and Cylinder I\'Iéth()ds, | .l'lld 1on of (,(mductn«'lty of Al,O, by Spherical En- mal conduc'tivit_v determines the }mat flow throggh a refrac- amount), it should aid gr.eatl_\' in unders'tanding the phenom-
By W. D. Kin i o S et S et B i e St SR o N ) 88-90 tory for a given temperature gradient, or determxfles the tem- ena of heat transfer. Itis us.uul to consider t]lrcc methods of
J S gery $ perature gradient obtained when a fixed heat flow is employed. heat transfer: (1) conduction, (2) convection, and (3) ra-
In addition, the thermal conductivity is known to have a diation. In any given actual case of the transfer of heat, two
20. Thermal Conductivitv- S i great efjfecl.. on the thermal spalling resi..stance a.nd on other or perl}aps all three of thesc. mclhn(?s. may be operative. It
S ALO B0 l N Analysis of Variation of Conduchii e e properties important to .thf.e use of ceramic matc.nals. is possible, however, to devise conditions wh.crc the amount
3 NROQEMEQ e e e e b y with I‘cmp(‘rature I'he temperature-use limits of special refractories have been of heat transferred by one of these methods is much greater
............................ 91-95 sharply raised by the advent of atomic power and jet propul- than that transferred by the others and then study this case

as an example of transfer by that method alone.

In conduction, energy (heat) is transferred by the mecha-
nism of interaction between two particles (e.g., ions and mole-
cules), one with a greater amount of energy and the other
with a lesser amount of energy, in such a way that some energy
is passed from one to the other. In the case of a gas, one
molecule may strike another molecule with less kinetic energy
and impart some of its energy to the second molecule. In

22.  Thermal Conductivitv - ~ .
== Cﬂndulctttil\\'iltt{t > IX, Experimental Investigation of Effect of Porac: i service, but few data are available for the thermal properties the case of a solid, an atom with a certain amount of vibra-
| S R e e R R s B 'Tosity on Ther- of these materials, especially at elevated temperatures. tional energy will tend to transmit some of this energy to a
By J. Francl and W DTG T pery i e e 99-107 In addition to a usefulness in atomic energy and jet pro- neighboring ion with less energy through the bond connecting
) pulsion, thermal data are required for design purposes in the them. In convection, heat is transferred by the actual move-
93. ‘Thermal Conaistiity s T application of refractories of a more usual nature. Conse- ment of purticles with a given energy to an@hcr part of the
y: , Data for Seve system where the particles have less energy on the average.

This means of heat movement is effective only in the case of
fluids. Convection is not considered in this investigation.
[n radiation, heat is transferred by the emission or absorption
of radiant energy between particles or surfaces. Since ra-
diant-heat transfer enters into this investigation as an extra-
neous effect, it will be necessary to discuss it briefly in a quan-
titative fashion.