(INTER-DEPARTMENTAL) ‘

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASSACHUSETTS

mrmnor F. M. Verzuh

April 7,-1952

\ Professor P. M. Morse

1 Chairman

\‘-§> Committee on Machine Methods of Computation
’ Room 6—109

Dear Professor Morse:

In accordance with your recent request for an accounting
of the property which was purchased by the Center of Analysis and
is currently being used by the Numerical Analysis Laboratory under
the direction of Dr. Jacchia, 1 am attaching an inventory of the
calculating machines involved.

You will notice this this list is primarily divided
into two parts. The first contains the machines which were paid
for with Center of Analysis funds from monies which were earned
while the Center was operating on a selﬁsupportlng basis. It
should furthermore be emphasized that these machines were not
purchased either as part of a DlC contract or departmental ap-

propriation, but rather from the profits earned by the Center of
Analysis.

The second group consists of calculators which were
procured under DIC Project no. 6112 to be used for a particular
task. These machines are not therefore MIT property and, ac-
cording to Mr. Rogers (who is in charge of DIC property), they
are transferable to Harvard on the new contract which has
recently been issued to Dr. Jacchia's group. I am merely in—
cluding the second group for the sake of the record.

It should be noted that these machines currently carry
an annual service contract which varies from $30. to $40. per
machine, depending upon the type. The current service contract
will expire on June 9, 1952, and if it should be decided to con—
tinue these service contracts, provision will have to be made to
finance it. Personally, i am not sure this would be wise and I
will discuss this with you later if you so desire.

in addition to the calculating machines, there are cer—
tain pieces of office furniture and the Tutorial Library which 1
shall report to you about later.

‘ Sincerely yours,
\
l
l

. M. Verzuh

 

 

 

 

 

_________--IIIIlllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII