5.8

-9—

ln penning, it ney he well to nention thet the entire DA wse di-nntled
end lnrgely renoved iron the prenisee during e two-seek period covering October
4 - 16 inclusive. A inter eection oi this report contnins s detniled stetenent
roger-ding the cost of theentire dissentling end resovel operstinn.

Purdue University intends to utilise their portion of the RDA for educntionel
treininc end resenrch. end as such, they hope to heve their nnohine instelled
end in operation et the beginning of the spring senester. In this connection,
it is well to enphnsine thet nlthough the physicnl nechine cmponents hsve been
delivered to mono. it is still neceesery to provide then with ndeeunte circuit,
Inchiue conponent, etc. wiring disgrene which vill ennble then to reusable the
nechine properly. This scene thet wiring digress, etc. :hlve yet to he photo-
steted end releesed to than for their use.

In eddition to the RDA incilities. Purdue is procuring s reirly lnrge
instslletion oi.electronic analogue equipeut. In feet, $30,000 worth oi Good-
yeer equiment hoe been ordered. The Purdue Ststieticel Division (which operntes
e soderete-sise punched-cord instellntion) hes recently received on internediete
sine dizitnl caputcr in: the Consolidsted Incineerin‘ (Jo-pony. Professor
Geldnecher undo the following stetenent shout their plans: ". . . Purdue does
not intend to rusin behind in the implant-expending field oi nnnlog end digitnl
conputntion. . ." It is evident thet the University has n rather nnbitious long-
rsuge plen.

om INSTITUTIONAL mucus

 

 

In eddition to the ne-Jh- contribution to Purdue University, the University
of Connecticut, Ithe Frnnklin Institute (Philedclphie), the Insem- oi Science
(Boston), the Grephic Arte Resenrch Poundntion (Cl-bridge) received verious
conponents iron the m which will be used prinnrily for educetionel treining,
touching. end research. Since severel of these groups ere lune-s, certein
choice portions of the Anelyror were relensed to the. in order thet they night

serve no chsrscteristic nueeun pieces illuetreting the ntste oi ert prevalent
on the RDA.

ln sddition to the nbove—nentioned education-l inetitutions, n coneidereble
euount of nnchine ccnponente, notably vecuun tubes. resistors. releys, etc. were
donnted to Belnont High School. This equipent is to be used on pert oi the
Vocetionsl Training Progre- in redio end electronics which is being presented

st the high school level. This contribution should echieve u very useful edncn-
tionnl purpose.

IJJ‘. Elm moms

 

It is also evident from Table l thet e umber of I.l.'r. projects hove
received conponente iron the RDA. In certnin cues. e.¢. , Dynelic Annlysis
Control I«hm-story (DACL), Flight Control Leborntory (ran), Servo-echmsisns
labor-story (me) , Acoustics therstory. etc. , the conponents will he incor-
pornted into other cc-puting Inchines. In other cnees, the equip-out sill he
used for graduate thesis research. This in largely true for ell the equip-out
relensed to various neubers of the Electrics]. end Aeronsuticll Engineering
Projects.