Proposal for a Statistical Investigation of Labor Force Participation
and Iobility to be conpleted by Septenher 30, 1950.

This request is for ”3,805 to finance a study 0! the labor force
participation responses 0! individuals. The object would be to eetinate
the probabilities that individuals would enter, reuin in, depart iron
or renain out of the labor Iorce under various codinations o! circun—
stances or inputs. he inputs to be considered would include the denoh
graphic and econonic characteristics of the individual and his (snily;
his past status with respect to labor force participation; and certain
characteristics of his environ-eat such as region, urbanization and the
state 0! labor denand.

These estinatee would be used to imluent the Ionte Carlo type
simulation of the United States social-econonic systen proposed by ()rcutt.1
Such a ainlation requires large nudrers o! para-etsrs or sets of operating
characteristics describing the behavior of the individual decision-aching
conponents o! the systen. These operating characteristics are the
probabilities 01 various types at reeponse or "outputs" under various sets
of prior circumstances, stinuli or "inputs".

Iesides serving the Orcutt nodel, such a nultivariate statistical
investigation would also have valuable by-products. Due to the sinulteneous
action 01 the variables referred to above upon labor force participation and
turnover, it has been extrenely difficult to disemsie their influences,
Published tabulations relating to labor lorce participation and gross ﬂows
into and out o! the labor iorce have not been sufﬁciently cross-classified
to sustain the necessary statistical analysis. no tunds being requested
would be used prinarily for covering the expense of finer cross classifications
at Current Population Survey results than have heretolore been carried out.

lultivariato statistical analysis applied to such cross-classifications

 

would isolate the several influences and their interactions so as to

 

alleviate the necessity tor conic; to conclusions such as the following:
"whether the Ioll-educatod wc-an ﬁo narries and has children is lore or less

likely to be enployed than the nether who has less education is not known."2

 

l Guy ll. Orcutt, "A New Type of Iodel ot a Socio—lcononic Bysten," Ieview
oi lcononics and Statistics, lay 1951,

2 Ionan ower, National Ianpower Council, p. 75.


ﬂute ere tour principsl sspects oi the isvestigetics o! the
hehsvior at individuels with respect to lsbor force perticipstiou. In
the first place, there is the enable. of defining pertici’etiu itsell.
This is the pnehle- 01 deﬁning the outputs or dependent veriebles. The
tollowing types of questions ere involved. low only hours per week or
weeks in the yeer met en isdividnel work or seek sol-k in order to quelity
es s lehor force puticipent? Ihst criteris should we slot for deciding
shether en individesl sho is working pert tins or so tile is reelly seeking
full tine employ-est, i.e., tether he is s full or pert tine labor force
perticipsnt? an constitutes "seeking" eqleylsnt? lhould se drew s line
between full end pert ties perticipstioe or should we recognise s continuous
gredetiou? aell we detise perticipstice on the hesis of se iestenteneous
stete or e condition over en intervsl of thee?

There being s ccusidershle evolution end litersture relsting
to these detinitiosel Forum-s,1 we shell not I“ to it, but Ierely edopt
the current deﬁnitions shich see- to suit our needs end shioh will per-it
us to neke use 0! the lost prosising sveilehle dets. An sttsqt will he
ends, however, to recognise gredetions 0! current sttechnent to the lehor
force on the heels 0! hours sorked per week.‘

”the second aspect o! the prom. relstes to the indepudent
vsrishles or inputs, on the heels of which we shell seek to explsis perti-
cipstion snd turnover. As hes slresdy bees indiceted, these will be
thought 0! ss telling in the following cstegories:

l, Chsrscteristics o! the individusl end his tesily

s. Delogrephic

h. Iconosic

c. lducetioesl

d. Pest stetus with respect to the lehor {ores
1. Characteristics of the individuel's environ-est

s. legion

h. Urbesisetion

c. lndustrisl structure 01 the surrounding lebor
nerket use

m
1 Bee psges 1-5 at the ettsched yeper.

. Degree at ettechnent in the pest, u explanetory verishls, will be
recognised by considering the umber of weeks worked during the
previous yeer. .


-3—

d. Level or industrial activity in the surrounding
labor narket area.

Here gain, the exact definition of variables will be inﬂuenced
by the deﬁnitions under which the nost pronisin; data waa gathered, 'l'bus,
tor exawle, with regard to the deiinition 0! region, urbanization and
labor nnrket areas, we shall adopt the categories and bonndnries need by
the Census Bureau and the Depart-eat of Labor.1 Iith regard to ecmonic
characteristics, we nay tor ennple, adopt as e neaaure o! non-earned wealth
"other" (than earned) incone instead of assets si-ly because the for-er
and not the latter is reported in the lost pronisin‘ source of data. At
least at this prelininary stage, it would seen that the lost efficient use
at resources could he nnde by studying pertinent variables as we find
th- in the available data sources.

0: course, the initial decision with regard to pertinence
is based upon co-on knowledge and introspection. ‘naus shntever we can
find reletis‘ to age, race, naritnl status, children, and relationship to
head o! rsnily is obviously pertinent. Alter the statistical analysis, it
nay be revealed that none or the variables or distinctions between intervals
on a variable are not signiﬁcant and at that tine re nay drop variables or
consolidate intervals.

“nae past labor force status at individuals constitutes one of
the nest tronblesone ot the independent variables because of its obvious
pertinence conbined with the paucity o! reasonably accessible data relating
to it. The probability that an individual will be in the labor iorce in
any (iv- nonth is obviously heavily dependent upon tether or not he
was in the labor force last nonth, last year, or ever before. And yet,
unless the right questions about the past are asked, a single questionnaire
tells us only about the labor force status of an individual in relation to
his present characteristics. Unfortunately, the right questions have
seldon been asked. The Current Population Surveys in their annual work
experience supple-eats do ask about labor torco participation during the
year prior, but the published results are too crudely cross—classiﬁed (or
our purposes. Three quarters of the households in the Qirrent Population

M
1 Bee pages 1‘ and 17 o! the attached paper


Survoy aa-plo aro ro-intorviowod in luccoaaivo methyl Io that thoro aro
rocorda oll Univac tapoa which could rovoal tho labor torso participatio-
of individuala ovor tiao. Bomor, tho inloraatioh tor aay aiulo iadi-
vidual io ooattorod oh my tapoo do that oxtooaivo aad oxpoaaiva collating
would ho roquirod to colloct tho intonatioo into uoohlo torn.

'l'horo iw tho continuou- work hiatory aanlo of tho least; but
only MI covorod .ployaoht 1a rocordod and tho doaographic had oceanic
characterization. oi iadividuala aro vory akotchy.‘

lano‘at aoro pro-ﬂing, but otlll hardly adoooato tor our
purpoooo, to tho haaic data ndorlyin] tho ICE otndy, Lobor bhilitz in
Six Citioo. his main: o! intorviowl with a probability oaqio o! 4400
wouun and .543 aoa. In ordor to quality ad roopoud-ta, tho individual-
had to ho 25 or ovor in 1.51, had to ho at work in January of that you,
and had to havo workod at loaat oao math in tho dooddo 1.40 to 1.50.
ha trouhlo with thia data 1- throotold, In tho fir-t plaeo, it io hiuod
hocauoo thou do aaro aot at work ia January 1951 aro oxcludod. In tho
Ioooad placo, rathor tow at tho d-o‘rwphic and oeonoaio chorutoriotiea
that wo aro iatorootod in woro rocordod. And tiaally, thoro io ho ro'ro-
oohtatioa 0! individual- livinc outaido at Ii: at tho largo" aotropolitaa
arou. It would oo- thon that tho tollowia‘ atroa; douclnoioa o! la!!-
aad Stowart id otill oowohtially valid; "any pox-Iona outor and withdraw
tron tho labor torch oovoral tiaoa during tho courao of a litotilo...‘l'ho
roquioito data tor invowtigatiu this prohloa aro hot availahlo.“

loro it hot tor tho hood to otudy tho bohavior or individual
docioioa-aakiag unita, wo light not coatnt with ootilatiac tho propor-
tiuao or iadividuala of ‘11.! uharaatoriatico to an ia tho labor toroo
undor .iwoh circmtaheoo. This, howovor, would aoglout tho rato of taraowor
within coll- tron aoath to loath and wo know that thoro aro ooaoidorohlo
variatioaa ih thia hotwoon colla. In tho can of ouo typoo o! iadividualo,
ouch an adult aaloa, thooo who aro in tho labor ioroo duriag day [ivoa

1 ho pago- 15-18 at tho attaahod papor tor a hriof doocriptioa of tho
(hart-oat Popalation Burvoy and 1th liaitationa.

2 ”Tho Goatihaoud Iork liatory Ba-plo Undor Old-Ago aad knivoro'
lhouraaco", Social Bocurity Mllotia, rob. 1944,

a Jatto, A. J. aad Gian-loo D. Ito-art, magnr Ioaourooo and Utilization,
P. m.

 

Mumwrb M, .


-5-

loath u-o Inch tho oo- lnuwuuol- u woro 1| tho 1-hou- toroo tho
loath prior ton-on in tho mo 0! mrtod 1.1” with an“, o o-ollor—
nhlo )roporttoo of then who no 1- tho lobar fox-co 1- my [two- loath
woro not in tho lobar totoo tho loath boloro. Moo- wo ton ooti-otoo of
thin roto o! lohor fox-co tomvor within noun, wo my 1-11 to uloooto
lohor for“ puticipotlu to tho “on o! oonh eon with my onyx-onu-
tloo to roouol. nu wo con-0t ”capo tho hoooouty o! otllyng tho ro-
lotxoolhlp hotwo- proooot “he: torso punch-tun ul pronoun 1-hou-
foreo puncs'otxoo or, 1- othor won-do, tho outooorrolotico of lohor torso
porticipotioo on: “no. htortuotoly, ohoot .11 that tho “-11qu
lot- ollowo no to do in tho roopoct to to rohto prooont participation
to mtlolpottu In“; tho prwwiowl you.
no moiurotto- o! luopo-lont vortohloo hu loo into tho third
uJor upoot at tho lhvootuotioo, handy “to ruin-onto no ovouohluty.
Idoouy, whot wo row-1n 1- mool to oboonottooo on I n-lo 0! Individual
ovu- u oxtooOod ”nod o: tuo. nu loo-o noon to tho ootuol ouootiolnlro
tor-o or ouothth‘ vory elooo to thot. hblilhod, tlhlotol, wool-
clooouloottooo on um ho oxto-uvo w to non!- tho mtuuioto
ototlotxod mlyuo tog-trod, no: u it “holy that ”bu-no tohlotlno
nu unlvo tho porttulu vouohloo thot no at tutu-on to no. hiortmto—
1y, soot of tho ohoorvotxooo of tho typo Io hood no undo by tho Cour-at,
whtd 1| boo-I by low- ;rohuutuc diocloouro o1 tutor-nun routing to
xuuuuu. lowowor, thoro on why. 9: "out“. tho hoooooory ohoorvotinoo
without Monthly“. tultwuwolo ud wo u'o euro-ﬂy onlorlh‘ tho-o poo-1-
bun“. wlth tho Doro-I ot tho Coo-Io.
no hoot sou-co ol doth moi-to or two ooto of him upon, mu
on tho hbﬂuy All hrﬁ 1051 Curl-out Papal-tic- hrwoyl, . it“ Ito ro-
eorlod, roopootivoly, tho chuontononco of individual I“ o! lolutoo.
no“ topo- no mummy vuuohlo for our porpoooo to: tho following roooooo.
1. no lehr-u-y on Inch (Xx-rout Motion knoy uootlmotroo
ooch outuh on oxt-dod not 0! wtluo. mug othor
loath- at tho you', tho tutvlduu Idolulol porn“ alto-111-
oonoo only on tho renown. nu "noun 0! utoroot:
o. lo:
b. no


c. lsce

d. Ielstionship to household hesd

e. Inritel stetus
ln lehrusry of esch yenr, on the other hsnd, work experience
during the previous you is recorded end in lnrch incc-e end
the eherecteristics oi the individnsl's innily sre recorded.
Lsst hrch, education wee recorded [or the first tile.

2. lot only sre the Iehrunry end lurch uuestiennsires richer

individually, especinlly the questionnaires of ”51, but
the inrorution cn the three querters of the snnple ma:
persists between successive noeths is colleted so thnt we
hsve wwh experience, educstioe, end incone ss well es en
extended list 01' deeogrsphic vsrishles tor shout 00,000
individusls H or over.

The tourth upect o! the investigstion is the ststisticsl
technique to be used. his is to consist prinsrily of met is essentislly
u snnlysis o! vsrisnce, though the sctusi conputsticnsl procedure is s
ion at lultiple regression shich does not seen-e linearity er sdditivity.
he procedure is being progrn-ed for the III 104. Further description
end en illustretien ere given on psges 81-38 of the stteched peper.
Proiesscr watt hse consented to provide ndvice on ststistieel setters.

Iecense of the non-disclosure regulstions governing the Beresu 02
the Census, it is not possible to obtnin copies of the 1957 wrest Populs-
tion Survey tspes referred to nheee. however, the Dureeu hse indicsted
willinness to punch cerds tron these tnpes nccordin‘ to our speciiicstions
end to cross clsesity these by vnrious desired conhinstias at seven or
eight verinhlee. linltsneous cross-clusiiicntion by nore then this
nuneer of vnrishles would result in too nnny qty cells. 'Ihe -JOI‘
disndvnntnce c! this linltstioe nny he nitigsted, however, by Judicieusly
selecting the Nineties“ o! vnrinhles so thst those between inch we
suspect significant intersctiens nny he trested si—ltnneeesly. In this
wny we nny svoid the necessity of. usunin‘ sdditivity o! etieets ﬁere

the essqtiee snesrs clenrly unwnrrsnted. It is hoped thnt the inven-
ti‘nticn o! the dnts referred to on pegee 22-21 at the sttsched peper,

which is currently under-y, will throw sole light on the relstive siniticnnce


-7-

of the inter-notions between lose or the explanstory vsrinblss we shsll be
working with.

The Bureau of the Census has indicsted thst it will cost $15,000 to
punch the necesssry csrds iron the CPS up", to perforl the desired sorting-
01 these cords Ind to punch the sun-or] csrds which we would use ss our
priury dltn input.

The [Bl 104 nchine tine thst will be used for carrying out the
ststistical snslysis st the IIT Co-putation Center will not cost snything.

The tot-1 request is for $23,805. The insulation of this snount is

as follows:

       
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
  
 
  
       

   

Card punching and sorting by the Bureau of the Census $15,000
Hslf tins salary anunry through June, 1958 1,500
Full tine sslnry July, August, Ind Septenber, 1958 1,500

Typing, card punching, progrs-ing sssistsnce,
clericsl help, etc. 2,000

'I‘rsveling expenses for trips to the lurelu o! the

Census, etc. 700
$20,700
Allowsnce tor indirect snd specisl expenses 3'105

$23, 305

The work would be conpletsd and the finsl report sub-itted by the
end 0! Septenber, 195B,

 

m
Csri I. Hoe
Assistant Chnncellor

\

Dr. I. L. Foster, Director
Division 0! Sponsored Research

November 13 1957

Dnte


luclouu-os:
1.‘ "The Butllltlon

I I)!"

3, Copies or pipe" pro-out“ at tho Sept-abet
Boone-ctr“:-

Oroenbor‘or, And
I] u). 1' I

(1 copy of. uch),

5

. Brie! proton-incl ro'Iu-o'


