LEE

gketch of
¥.I.T. Computation Center
Status Report

TT 1957


Qutline

J. General Description of the Center

A. History:

Announcement by IEM of machine and terms

St iisnsile Felcaran, free rent, installation
rt, and use for N.,B Colleges and Unive

py  (eirca

History of MIT in computing with Wlirlwind and

switbh-over in Summer 1957.

en

Became member of SHARE organization.

Computer time arrangements !/ |

B. Organization: Outline of bread admimistrative areas,

and roles of Morse, Arden, Verzuh, and Corbato.
Continued interest of IBM and role of Hunter
and his successor Blackburn. Role of Applied
Seience Research (ASR) for IBM. A

Ce Hquipment and Facilities: quarters in K.T. Compton Labi.

consisting of offices, conference rooms, classroom
derkroom, document room for computer referende work,
#04 computer consisting of (brief listof equip)
which will be épetating around early Lay 1657

D. Operation of the Centerfintenddd): 3 shifts in chunks

for quick access to computer, MIT and KE times

to be zeparated by bookkeeping only. Open=shop
programeing. Professional operators for actual
running of programs. Self-service for key-punching
and | card processing before
computer input. Center will supply professional
card-handling service to projects which will
support such service.

Yew England Colleges and Universities Cooperative Frogram

including west of N.i. Colleges which will have
access to the Center facilities, Léason by

the Institutional Representatives. (Give list
of schools and Represéntatives)

Fe I.BeM. Research Appoirtment Frogram

Assistants feel: graduate students}, and
Associates (generally junior faculty members)

of ¥.I.T., and N.E. Colleges are appbinted =x by
the Center with funds given by I.B.Me N.E. Appoint-
ments made by Institutional Advisory Group ( Gu lui?
(xx a sub-set of the Inst, Reps.). MIT appbiniments
made by MIT Machine Committee. Appbihhnés
supervised by faculty advisors, Inst. Reps.s

xN& or Mach, Comm. Members, (al their schools or
Depts, At the Center by Corbato. purposes
education and research in computer applications,


rT nr

line (cont

Ge Niesearch Programs:
l, Physical Sciences: NSF grant of about $30,000 /yr,
i durpose of consulting staff and
development of new applications.

2+ Social Science: Rockefeller grant of about $30,000 /yr,
: Purpose of eoomsulting staff and |
introductiony of computing into
hitherto unexplored fimkdxx areas,
Social Science Advisory Group- for
egsistance in finding personall amd
evaluating research, (Give lidt)

I1, Current Status of Center Activitiesy

Ae IT BJM. Research Appointmentsi Lead-off by Corbato giving
purpose and general procedures of working at a
distance without a computer, Discuss subroutine

assignments, and memos, Describe plans for
gainghyg quick knowledge of computer by ssaigning
the testing of subroutines, Give general review
of progress and mention specific saEEEsEEsSXAREXX
activity of high-promiss, XxWKXzxrx Give list of
Appointees and schools, (Follow by edited set of
individual raports, listed by schools),

Po Bducatien, Coumses xm Seminars and Lectures

Courses of Hildebrand, Ulam, Arden, Versuh, 5loan
School, Tues, Seminars (list of speakers and topics?),
Two-week course lsst summer and 704 Notes,

Short 4 hour 704 course, Next summer 704 course,
Morse lecture &t Tufts,

Reference to the various courses and seminars at

the N.8. schools,

Ce i Research {EBbEgh i
ann 71. Post-Mortem, Utility Control, Algebraic Compiler
fred Nrefer to menos ) , SHARE subroutine liste, SHARE
meetings, revised SAP Weite-up, large scale
seni-permanent memory devices, punchei-paper tape
input, Photon

2s Physical Sciences: linear programming, chess

3¢ Social Seiences: RElectoral redéstricting

De Publications: center memos, Journal Publications.


