Dr. Grad =2 July 13, 1959

   

myself as chalirman, Professor Walter Freiberser of the De -
ment of Mathematics at Brown University as :Ecretary) and?ggﬁer
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next year or two it would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to

college computling centers. The discussions could fecus around
four general arcass

1. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "sold" and
what fractlion should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of machines?
Whet are the opportunities for theses in these fields, how are
such theses to bo supervised and how are degrecs to be granted
on the basis of these theses?

3, Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be
offered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credlt
or as short courses without credit or as parts of other appro-
nrlate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual

content, intimately involving computing machines, are belng
given and in what departments?

4., Computing service to university departments: Who in the
college should be given "free time"? UWhat priority system can
be set up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between free and paying users? What are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory committees to administer such a
service program?

It was felt that a confercnce on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would result
in a report cmbodying suggestions and mutual %greements on these
matters, would be of very great help to many directors of college
computing centers, particularly those Just beginning or planning
to begin. It would seem to me that NSF would also be intcrested
in the results of such a conference. Certainly the question of
how college computing centers fit into thelr academic structure
and how they can help more completely to educate seilcntists and
engineers is something which has been a subject of discussion in
various parts of NSP to my knowledze. My question to you, tChere-
fore, ia an exploratory cnc: Is NSF Interested in such a confer=
ence? Is it intercsted enough to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, according to
the latest 1list of Professer Reeves of Ohlo State. We had thought