= mm ——

Minutes of Mesting of Committee

on
Machine #ethods of Computation
November 22, 1950

Members Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, Z. Kopel, C. Lin,
: P. M. Morse znd KE. Kelssner

Morse explained that the official directive for the Com-
mittee had not yet been promulgated, but that it should be ex-
pected in a short time. In the meantime, there were many ques-
tions which could be discussed and on which decisions would be
needed shortly. Several topics were brought up.

The first was the question of the supervision of various
graduzte students. Four of these - Salzer, Hamm, Verzuh and
Dolzansky (?) - have already completed their general doctor's
examination in the Electrical Engineering Department and ere
ready to go on with thesls research. It was indicated thst the
Electrical Engineering Department might ask this Committee to
suggest supervisory committees for these men. Three students -
Carrus, Fox and Booton - have not yet taken thelr general ex-
aminations. The Committee in this case might be asked to sug-
gest appropriate examination topics for tais general examina-
tion. It was felt that such a general examination would be in
the nature of removing & few specialized subjects {rom either
the Electricel lngineering examination or tne Mathematics ex-
amination, and adding some subjects more connected with com-
putation. In other words, it wes felt taut most of the students
should nave a basic background of either blectrical Engineering
or Mathematics (or perhaps Physics), but that they would not
need to be examined on some specialized obrencues {(sucn as power
engineering), and that in its place would be put some material
more appropriate for the macnine computer. It was decided to
discuss this question of the exuawinetlion in more detuil at tue
next meeting.

The question of courses to be offered at W.l.T. in this
subject was also discussed. I1t wes felt better To postpone
detailed discussion of this point until the Committee had be-
come more clear on its opinion concerning ting preliminary ex-
amination. The question of & possible Summer Session on
Mecinine Computation was &lso brought up.

WM

Ph M. Morse,
Chairman


