8.

DL

Learn how to use effectively the 704 computer.
Acquire a general knowledge of numerical analysis.
Attend the weekly seminar as frequently as possible.
(First meeting: Tuesday, September 25, 3:00 p.m.,
Room 2-239, M.I.T.)

Get acquainted with the staff members of the Computa-
tion Center and the other assistants and associates.
Work on projects which will be periodically assigned
by the Center. These projects may range over as
varied a 1list as: writing subroutines, technical
writing for Computation Center reports, assisting
numerical analysis courses (on-campus assistants),
giving seminars on computers at your respective
schools (off-campus assistants), and assisting in
the operation of the Center.

Submlt a "progress report" at the end of each M.I.T.
semester (deadlines will be announced later). These
reports may be brief but should describe the status
of your work at the Center. Each report should have
a short abstract summarizing the contents of the re-
port. R The reports may contain all or part of the
write-up for "thesis reps:ts.™ If more than one
problem has been wrked on, separate reports should
be submitted. Finally it should be emphasized that
these reports are to be written at the level of an
expert in your professional speclalty and not for a
"common denominator" of the Computation Center.

The individual reports of the assistants and associ-
ates will be edited and published a month or two
after they are submitted. These printed progress
reports will be distributed to scientific centers
about the country.

Give references (for inclusion in the next printed
progress report) of your publications concerning
problems which were done, in part or wholly, at the
Computation Center. These references may be sub-
mitted at any time and should include f'or complete-
ness publicatlons which arise after an assiztantohio
may have ended. This would apply especially to
theses and subsequent Journal articles.

Keep the Center and your institutional represcenta-
tive informed of your current address and telephone
number,

Without the 704 machine available {(expected arrival at
the end of February 1957), your immediate plans should be primarily
concerned with study of the 704 and getting acquainted with the

staff members.

For the purpose of 704 study, a set of notes were

issued to all attending the 704 programming course at M.I.T.