Office of Naval Research January 23, 1956
Reference: Contract N50ri-06001 DIG—#6345, #6915

items as the preparation of summary reports on the program of
Machine Methods of Computation.

This summary is based on estimates prepared by Prof—
essor P. M. Morse,

Professor Morse further advises that the expected
arrival of an IBM Type 70% Electronic Data Processing Machine at
MIT about January 1, 1957 will create a definite need for addi—
tional fundsu—to finance the conversion of existing Whirlwind
programs to Type 704 programs°

Under the proposed plan submitted herewith, Project
#6345 (Whirlwind Operation) would terminate on June 30, 1957°
The task order for this period would include the usual Whirlwind
project activities: '

1. Research in methods of numerical analysis and
the formulation of scientific problems for machine
solution, together with the training of personnel
in these methods.

2. Support of the Scientific and Engineering Applica~
tions Group of Project Whirlwind so as to make the

computer useful and available for the aboveomentioned
research.

In addition, it is proposed that the following task
order arising in connection with the Type 704 EDPM be included:

3. The development of a suitable interpretive program
and associated coding techniques to permit effective
implementation of the Type ?04 machine.

It is anticipated that a separate project will be set
up to handle the Type 704 utilization within the MIT Computation
Center, and a separate request to the ONE for support of this work
will be made in the near future. In this respect certain
experienced programmers could be made avail ble for transfer to
this new task as of January 1, 1957° This 9 ticipated transfer
has been taken into account in the budget pr posed for Project #63ﬂ5.

 

 
 

The foregoing proposal does not take into consideration
termination costs which may be associated with the close out of
this contract end the possible disposition of the Whirlwind Computer.
It is proposed to delay the submittcl of any budget for this matter
until such time as disposition of the Whirlwind Computer is
determined.