\‘lq

mmmmms INSIITUTE momma!

Departuonﬁ of Physla; J

_ WW“?! “.1

TO: N. M. Sago ' ' ' " ‘z' ' ’

Dates) 2/20/51

Subject: Proposal/for Research apd_Tralqlng Project in Applied
Mathematics, using large-souls Computing Equipment,
particulgrly Whirlwind.

Froma_ Prof. Phlllp M. Morse

Whirlvipd Projoct has now reached a sooge or development
where its potentlalitles_can be utilized, together with the other
computing egulpoent at Technology, in a coordinated regegrch and
training program, of the sort anticlpateﬁ by ONerurlng its
several years of support of one Project. Both the Institute and
the Haﬁy are vitally interested in the use of largevscals comp
puting ﬂevices {or the solution of scientific and engineering
problems, and for the promotion of training for students inter-

ested in_thls field.

Of course a part of the time of Whirlwind will be used
for tho solution of a special Air Force problam, and it is ex—
pected that the Air Force will conxribute an appreciable part of
the support of the Whirlwind Project, for the development of
equipment and methods for the solution of this problem. Heverthe-
less, approximately half the working time of the machine itself
will be available for the Fundamental grogram, mentioned above and

outlined below.


«2.

Since a research and training programjmust be closely
linked w1th other acuity activities, it 510 proposed that “7K
supervisilﬁ‘ggmjgggr 3M2: by the recently created Gunter for

A
Machine Computation. The interdepartmental Advisory Committee to
this Center provides a broad representation of various nianttflo,
onginoermg and tralnmg aotivitlu likely to be involved.

The progrlm which OER nlsht wish to support can be divided
into four sections: I

1. Research in methods of numerical analysis and the formu-
lation of aclentlfio problems for machine solution, together with
support of training or students in these methods.

2. Support of the scientific and engineering applications
group previously roferred to with Project Vhlrlwind so a: to make
the WV computer useful and available for the above research, and
old to the research being carried on by MIT faculty and students.

3. A partial support of the maintenance of the UV computer.

4. Research on an investigation of digital computing machine
components.

It is understood that details of the program, which is

necessarily evolutionary in character, will be worked out from

time to time with the Scientific Officer of the ORR.

It is contemplated that $300,000 per annum for a parlod
of at least two yeors will be required to get this program under

way. Detail of the budget is as follows:

 

w-

As: Mufﬁn"-





