@

liinutes of the Fourth Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine detnods of Computation
December 13, 1950

Persons Presents G. S. Brown, i. Feshbach, Z. Xopul, C. Lin
Pp, M. liorse end BE. Reissner ? :

Kopel listed the courses given in the Electrical Engineering
Department in this general subject. There zre four courses, 6.531
= 6.534, inclusive, which Kopal gives. These cover mainly the
fundamentals of Numerical Anslysis with a certain amount of
laboratory work to develop facility in the use of desk machines.

| ‘Kopal feels that these courses represent a bare minimum of train-

ing to get & person started in the field, and that it would be

‘desirable to have further more-advanced courses if we wish to ex-

pand our graduate training in tals field.

Another four courses given in the Electrical Engineering
Department are: 6.535, given by Welchmaen, on coding for digital
machines 6.536, given by Caldwell, on analogue macaines; 6.5387,
given by Verzuh, on the design of machine components; and 6,56,
given by Gullleuin, on methematical circuit theory, which con-
tains some aspects of the design of machine couponents. In eddie
tion, there is course M54, Mathematical Laboratory, given in the
Bathematics Departuwent, which is quite unconnected wit these
other courgss. The general feeling of the Committee was that
considerable discussion will be required to declde what further
courses should be suggested, out that eventually furtiner strength
would be needed in a wore-advanced course, Or Courses.

Professor Brown arrived at tals time, and the discussion
turned to the questions of the graduate students considered last
time. Ue reports thut Professor Thomas is in cinarge of prepara=-
tion of the written examination for the klectrical Enginsering
Department for February. Professor Brown will suggest to Pro=-
fessor Thomas that he get in touch with Feshbaci, Lin, lorse,
and helssner witha regard to collection of questions for the
ShEsLel examination in February for Booton and Carrus. Kopal
will talk to Booton &nd Carrus to let thew know the general sub-
Ject matter of the special exuminztion. Professor Brown will
discuss the other cases mentioned in the minutes of the last
meeting with the graduate coumittee of tune Electrical Engineering
Departuent this Tnursday end will report back on the other ques-
tions mentioned in the lest minutes.


|

Minutes of the Fourth Meeting of the
@ Comnittee on Machine Methods of Computation -2=

 

The case of Verzuh was then discussed. Professor Brown sug-
gests that the Committee consider what sort of preliminary exami-
nation would be appropriate for Verzuh, and whether additional
course work should be advised before he takes this examination.
It was agreed that Feshbach, Kopal and Heissner will meet with
Verzuh some time before next Wednesday, will talk over his back-
ground and his plans for research, and, on the basis of thls
conference, will make recoumenaations to the Committee next week
as to Verzuh's future course.

The next meeting of the Committee will be at 9:30 on Wednes-
day, December 20, in Room 6-109.

oe

Chairman


