PROPOSAL FOR NSF GRANT TO SUPPORT COOPERATIVE PROGRAM
FOR NEW ENGLAND CCLLEGES
FOR RESEARCH AND EDUCATION IN MACHINE COMPUTATION

 

Background ~ Last year 27 colleges and universities in
New England a a cooperative program of training and research in
digital computer use using the facilities and 8tafi of the Computation
Cen:er at M.I.T. IBM contributed the machine, a 704, and the main-
tenance staff, M.IL.T. provided most of the Supervisory and faculty
staf, the other colleges. contributed faculty time of various amounts.

The results of this cooperative effort are promlsing. Two
ful. ~-length courses in machine programming (two weeks, 8 hours each
day have been given, each to classes of 120-150 of students and
faculty members of the cooperating colleges; several shorter courses
have been given, at M.I.T. and at some of the ofher schools. During
the 8 months since the 70# has been in operation, problems in the
fol. owing subjects have been put on the machine:

Aerodynamics Languages
Antropology Mathematics
Astronomy Mechanical Engineering
Business Problems Medicine

Chemistry Metallurgy

Chemical Engineering Meterology

Civil Engineering Naval Architecture
Education Nuclear Engineering
Economics Operations Research
Electronics Physics

Electrical Engineering Psychology
Geology Public Administratio

(Details of these problems are given in the latest semi-annual
vepcrt, of January, 1958)

At present. (February 1958) about 150 problems are active,
of which about 100 are from M.I.7.. 50 from the other cooperating
institutions. The number of active problems is increasing rapidly and
the oroportion of problems from the other institutions is also
increasing. At present the single-shift (5 days a week) operation is
runring at about 80 per cent of capacity. In the near future, Saturdays
will be made operating days and in the spring we will have to go to
two-3hift operation.


Need for Support -~ The capacity of the Center to handle
increasing RL by lack of full-time staff to aid the
users in solving their problems and to develop programs and auxiliary
equipment to make the machine easier to use. This staff must be of
high quality, able to teach classes and also to participate in

research in machine logic and numerical analysis. The Center operates
on the "open-shop" plan, the user doing his own coding and other
preparation work, but many users need help in finding the most

efficient way to organize their program, and all of them would save

time if more utility programs and more flexible input-output equip-

ment were available. An intensive project for the development of
techniques and facilities to make the machine easier to use by the
occasional user has been initiated. This project will require financial
support 1f it is to be carried out in time to be of help to users in

the next few years.

Development of HLllify Programs - In addition to assisting
individual users putting their problem on the wachine, the Center
staff have the important task of making the machine easier to use by
all users. It always takes time, The experience of many users, To
reveal all the capabilities of any piece of machinery; this 1s partl-
cularly true of high-speed computers. Because of Their speed and
complexity it will take a dozen years or more before even the full
capabilities of our present machines are known, and by that time machines
of still more speed and complexity will be bullit. A computer of the
gize of the TOY has an order of complexity such that its designers
literally are not aware of all of its capabilities. Consequently 1t is
important that research into these capabilities be carried on; such
research, revealing easier ways of obtaining results and new methods of
operation, may at times go farther in increasing machine serviceability
for the general user than can the providing of a new machine with
increased speed or capacity.

A few years ago a machine user had to become familiar with
binary arithmetic and with all the other idioscynerasies of The primary
machine operating code, Jjust as the early auto owner had to be familiar
with spark and choke and clutch. As time goes on it is less and less
necessary for the occasional user to master all these details in order :
to use the machine, even if he has to devise a program for a new problem.
In the first place, many of the more usual calculations will have been
already programmed so That, for example, if one wishes to compute a
Bessel function or to apply the chi-squared test for the £it of a
formula to a set of data, one need only use the ready-tested program.
In the second place, it is possible to provide a helrarchy of "trans-
lation procedures" -- assembly and operator programs, etc. -- whereby
the machine itself will translate the desires of The user, expressed
ir language more familiar to him, into the specialized "language" of
the basic machine code. This may be termed programming at the second


or higher level; such programs do not produce computed numbers,

they produce programs which then produce numbers, thereby increasing
machine time somewhat but reducing considerably the time and effort
of the occasional user.

The TO4 at the Center has available the usual assembly
programs - the SAP and the more ambitious FORTRAN systems. The Center
staff have already added improvements to these, such as a Post Mortem
program so that the TOE may help in analyzing coding errors. They
are engaged in setting an Automatic-~Operator System which will con-
siderably increase the efficiency of use of the machine. In addition,
they are investigating various possibilities of making the next big
step in translation from "mathematical language" to "machine language",
beyond Fortran. :

As more and more computations are done on TO4's, more and
more programs are written which can be used by others desiring to
carry out similar computations. Each such program, to be useful, of
course must have ifs write-up giving accuracy, limits of validity and
other explanatory and cautionary remarks, and must be prepared in card-
deck or magnetic tape form so it can be readily inserted as a part of
some overall program.

Preparation of such a library of sub-routines is part of the
task of the staff. Even the routines put out by the SHARE organization
(the users of 704 machines) had required testing and evaluating to be
useful for our open-shop operation. The SHARE Library is also deficient
in regard to function generation. Conseguently some of the routines
developed for Whirlwind are being re-programmed for the TOY and the
special function routines, developed at Los Alamos, are also being
adapted for our library. By spring we should have a more complete
library than many 704 installations and probably one more spread in its
applicability than most.

The present staff of the Center is inadequate to keep up with
the day-by-day demands for help and for preparing sub-routines for
general use. Consequently, work on the more ambitious systems for
simplifying machine control, which are planned, is going slowly. Unless
more staff can be employed, the machine’s usefulness to the faculty
and students of the cooperating colleges and universities will be more
limited Than we would desire.

Devesopment of burlliary Equipment - In many experiments a

great number of data are recorded, which must then be analyzed graphically
or analytically before results of scientific interest emerge. If the

data must be transcribed several times errors arise, and much time is

lost if such transcription in analysis is done by hand. In many cases

it turns out to be worthwhile to arrange to have the data recorded in

a form which the 704 will accept and to program the machine to carry

out the analysis and to record the results in understandable form.


Another possible wmodification of the 704 shows promise of

increasing the versatility of the machine in a number of aspects,

The pasic medification iB a set of connections directly to the arith-
metic wvnik, via appropriate buffer circulis, so that the core memory
and the internal operation of the machine gan be sontrolled “from
outside”. The combination of this capability with the display
possibilities of Che Sotho output tube make pessible a variety

of new capabilities.

: | For example, she machine gould then b2 programmed to display
on the scope a grapha of the value of any function of two variables
x andl ¥v along any iine in the (x,¥) plane. Dy means of the external
conbrel the position and orientation of the line ceouid be changed at
will and the graph shown on the scope would change accordingly. thus
enzbling the features of the two-dimensional surface to be explorad
at will. In fact, the program could be extended to enable the observer
to see the intersection of any surface in three dimensions with any
plane, and to change position and orientation of the plane 30 as %o.
explore the surface. This could also be extended to more dimensions.
Minimal contours and gzodeaics could be determined experimentally. so
te speak. :

of s5ill greater promise. a glass plate on which are drawn
letters or figures can be placed in front of the cathode ray sereen,
the cathode beam may be programmed to sweep the area (like a TV scopa)
and a photo-cell could be arranged to “report back" to the machine
namory. (through the control link deseribed above) which part: of the
plate are covered with ink. This, of course, is the first step to be
taken in "teaching the machine to read". With such equipment the
machine could be programmed to recognize patterns, reproduce graphs
and, eventually ’ to read ant recognize numbers or letters.

| AL present the Center has no sechnicians who tan gonstrast
mxiliary equipment of the sort deseribed here, and has wo funds for
purchasing the necessary parts. A relatively small outlay in the
next few years would enable us to increase the flexibility and
capabllivy of the machine GNOrmOusly. It will not’ be necessary G0
set up a separate shops other Institute shop facllltd ies can be used.
if we have the personuel to do the work.

y=?
a

: Personnel on The present staff of the Center ean direct this .
program and carcy. out some phases, if they can be relieved of other
dugies uhilch they are at present paid to do. Additional budget wonld
a5} w@able pari or all of the time of scme of these men Lo be devot ced £0

the proposed programs O op service and consulting duties they now
have could be carried oul by additional men who could be nired for
vided o JE Purpose e

9

u cd eel mi di, -


The supervisory staff involved are:

Dr. Philip M. Morse. Professor of Physics, Director of
the Center
Dr. Frank Verzuh, Director of Operations of the Center
Dr. Dean Arden, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering,
- Director of Research for the Center

" Members of the research staff who could participate in the
program are:
Dr. F. J. Corbatd, Staff member of the Center
Dr. John McCarthy, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, on

leave from Dartmouth College
Dr. M. D. McIlroy, Research Associate
Mr. Sheldon Best, Research Associate of the Center
Mr. Frank Helwig, Research Associate of the Center
Mr. Arnold Siegel, Research Associate of the Center

Sudeet : Development work of the sort described can be

continue efinitely, of course, but the first results of the program
will provide the great:st benefits in making the machine more versatile
and easy to use. Intensification of the program for three years would
enable many improvements to be made, soon enough to affect many pro-
grams for machine use now being made at the cooperating institutions.
The additional financial support %to carry out this development work

is not large, compared to the contributions now being made by IBM and
by the cooperating institutions, but the work cannot be done without
additional funds.

A minimal budget for the three-year program is as follows:

2 Senior Research Associates aosd per 3%27) $16,000
3 Junior Research Associates (g5500 per year 16,500
1 Secretary 3 - f 4,000
1 Techrician (or 2 half-time technicians,
shared by another laboratory) 3,500
41.000
Overliead (20 per cent) 8,200
Equipment, parts, etc. 10,000
Travel 1,000
OfVice supplies, report production,ete. 500
- Yearly budget $60,700

Taree~year total $182,100


6

AC 18 herby requested that the National Science Foundation
grant funds to the Computation Center at M.I.T. for this three-year
cooperative program.

   

Philip M. Morse
Director, Computation Center

Approved for President's Office

CEE SC aT a RE SER RRS A A EE aad

Approved for Division gf Sponsored Research


