THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
COMPUTATION CENTER
AUSTIN 12

May 19, 1959

Professor Philip M. Morse
Director, Computation Center
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Mass.
Dear Professor lbrse: 3

Thank you for your letter of May 13, 1959. Instead of the establishment
of an organization restricted sclely to Directors of University Computing Centers
it might be desirable to consider an organization open to members of the staffs
of such centers. Thus technical aswell as administrative matters could be dis-
cussed. Such an organization might meet once a year. Local groups such as The
Midwestern Universities Computing Group and The Southwest Universities Computing
Group might wish to affiliate with the main organization. At present the communi-
cation among University Computing Center Directors appears to be largely through the
local meetings, through the I.B.li. conferences and, of course, at ACH meetings and
National Computer Conferences. The I.B.ll. Conference last year was extremely interest-
ings however 1 understand that from now on the attendance will be limited to those
from installations with I.B.ll. equipment.

L would like to see the question of whether such an organization should be
established discussed in some detail. Since it seems to me that there will be many
more Directors of University Computing Centers present at the ACU meeting in Septem-
ber than at the Bastern Joint Computer Conference later in the year, I suggest that
a meeting be arranged either before or after the ACM meeting and with or without the
blessing of the ACH Program Committee. A direct mailing could be made to each Univer-
sity Computing Center prior to the ACH meeting announcing the special meeting.

Since there is a possibility that I may go to Europe in June, I am not sure
whether 1 will attend the I.B.lM. Conference this year. If I do not, then probably

Professor Gregory will represent the University of Texas. I am sure that he will be
as interested in this question as I am.

oincerely yours,

id Tp Yourg Py.

David M. Young, Jr.
Director, Computation Center

MY sbl

Ce Co Dr. R. T. Gregory


