B o T T e e
- y - 4 == - o .

COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes of the Second Meeting
October 26, 1953

Persons Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, F. Hildebrand,
C. C. Lin, P. M. Morse, W. W. Seifsrt,
FP. H. Verzuh

Horse and Versuh reported the results of a conference
with Messrs. Little and Foster concerning the operation of the
IBH equipment. They reported that it was finally agreed that
the projects who could afford to pay for IBM time would have
first call on the equipment during the day but that research
projects and other educational work would have first priority
for work during the evening, and that when this work was approved
by the Machine Committee, there would be no charge for IBM time.
The evening work would, of course, require active participation
on the part of the research workers, and the machines would be
used on a "self service" basis. In order to support the remtal
charges for the equipment, the projects would be charged st a
rate of 15 an hour. This means that educational research in
the Institute, which is approved by the Committee, will have
access ©o the IBM equipment during the last part of the evening
hours without ¢h E

Seifert reported that the analogue machine project was
endeavoring to work out a similar arrangement that he would re-
port in more detall later.

Forrester reported preliminary estimates on the cost
of running and maintaining Whirlwind I and the MITC computer if
and when military gupport is withdrawn. He estimated that an
"adequate budget" for providing service and maintaining cne or
the other of these machines, without zdditional development or
improvement of the machine, would rur about $00,000 a year.

This project imcluded a staff of 3 engireers and 7 technicians
plus the usual 46 per cent overhead on salary. If this support
could not be afforded, a form of less satisfactory service could
be provided for a leaser sum, sapproximately ¥50,000 a year, where
the machine would be used on a "self service” bazmis. If both
machines were to be kept, the cost would not be twice this but
would be approximately 120,000 or an "adequate basis" or per-
haps 375,000 on an "austerity basis". For competent service,

of course, there would be noeded also an analysis group similar
to that carried on by Adams at present which would ecost approxi-
mately #50,000 a year additionszl on sn "adequate basis".

After some discussion it appeared that the Committee
could not strongly advocate keeping at the Institute both WWI