—

(a)

TEMPERATURE —

Fig. 9. Temperature gradients across slab without radiant transfer (a)
and with radiant transfer (b), (c).

ary for the integral in equation (4a) to be written from 0 to
o instead of the limits given. The assumption also implies
that the other three equations are essentially zero. Integrat-
ing this,

— T\9
qr = 40Tx3(———T| = Tt); (5)

Since the total heat flow (g¢) is given by the sum of the radiant
and conductive heat flow, the following equation can be writ-

 

ten:
gv = ge + G ‘
g = k,ﬁg -t 4«1‘:3(5—;—2")2 (6)
or solving for the true conductivity
g — 40T;? (T; __G_Z'-’> ‘5
L e e (7)

Since ¢; is measured experimentally and the apparent con-
ductivity calculated from the expression k., = g/ AT, it is
seen that the true conductivity is less than the apparent con-
ductivity by some amount which can be calculated if the
quantities in equation (7) are known.

Figure 9 shows the gradient (a) which would occur across
the slab if all the heat passed by conduction and the smaller
gradient (b) which actually occurs since some of the energy 1s
passing by radiation transfer. If xis assumed to be equal to
0 or a, the amount of radiant energy at the boundaries will be
obtained. In this case, all except equations (4b) or (4c¢)
(which are mathematically equivalent) are equal to 0 (or
essentially so). Then for the radiation across the boundary

q, = 40T1n3[:(’1~i — ’I‘l‘) + (I_L—__—I—Q) l] (8)
a @

Depending on the relative sizes of the first and second items in
the brackets, the value of ¢, at the boundary may be less than,
equal to, or greater than that in the center of the slab. It is
difficult to estimate the effect of the boundaries, but experi-
mental work with pieces of different thicknesses might give
some indication since the effect would be more pronounced in
thinner pieces.

One type of gradient that could be caused by the boundary
effectsis shown by (¢), Fig.9. (For a more precise and exhaus-

94 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—McQuarrie

Vol. 37, No. 2

tive treatment of the passage of radiant heat through trans-
lucent materials the reader is referred to Kellett’s discussion
of the passage of radiant energy tl.lrough glass..2 When the
same simplifying assumptions used in the foregoing derivation
are applied to Kellett's equations, they reduce to the results
presented here.) ) .

Although it is not possible to apply the equations derived
above to such a complicated shape as the prolate spheroids
used in this investigatian, it is possible to calculate the magni-
tude of the radiant-heat flow for the case of a simple slab of
the same thickness as the author’s samples and at the same
temperature, and to see if this is an appreciable portion of the
whole heat flow. From the value of apparent conductivity of
magnesia at 2000 °K. (0.019 c.g.s. units) it is determined that
the total heat flow through a slab with this mean temperature
and a gradient of 100°K. per cm. is 1.9 cal. per sec. per cm. 2
Taking a value of about 16 cm.™ for the absorption coefficient
of magnesia, it is found from equation (5) that g, is about 0.6
cal. per sec. per cm.? Thus it is evident that the radiation
heat flow is a considerable portion of the total heat flow.

Another way of looking at the question is to calculate the
true conductivity from equation (7) and compare it with the
apparent conductivity. The apparent conductivity has been
found to be 0.019 c.g.s. units and the true conductivity from
equation (5) is 0.013 c.g.s. units. Thus the radiation through
the specimen is seen to increase the apparent conductivity
over the true conductivity by nearly 509%. It should be em-
phasized again that these figures are not directly applicable to
the present results but are given merely to indicate the sig-
nificant order of magnitude of the radiation effect.

From the foregoing discussion one might conclude that the
radiation effect (represented by the second term of the empiri-
cal expression for thermal conductivity) should increase as
the third or fourth power of the temperature (depending on
the temperature gradient) whereas the experimental results
appear to indicate that it increases as about the tenth power
of the temperature. A much more careful study of the radia-
tion effect is needed, however, before any very accurate quan-
titative expression can be obtained for it. Secondly, the der-
ivation above assumes that the absorption coefficient of the
material is a constant, and this is not true in practice. Itis
known that as the wave length of the radiant energy decreases
with increasing temperature, the effective or average absorp-
tion coefficient decreases. TFurthermore, it is not certain that
the absorption is the same at all temperatures.

V. Conclusions
(1) The conductivity of alumina, magnesia, and beryllia
has the same general temperature dependence—a decrease
with increasing temperature until a minimum is reached at
about 1500°C., after which there is a sharp increase.
(2) The conductivities of the materials can be represented
by an empirical equation

k= A/NT — 125) + 85 X 10T

where the constant A has the value 16.2 for alumina, 18.8 for
magnesia, and 55.4 for beryllia. The equation is valid for
alumina and magnesia from room temperature to 1800°C. and
for beryllia from 1000° to 1800°C.

. (3) The minimum of conductivity found in this investiga-
tion, and not predicted by any theory, is believed to be due to
an increase in apparent conductivity at the highest tempera-
tures caused by the passage of radiant energy through the
translucent specimens. -

2 B. S.‘Kcllett, “Steady Flow of Heat Through Hot Glass,””
J. Opt. Soc. Amer., 42 (5] 339-43 (1952); Ceram. Abstr., 1953,
March, p. 414, |

 

February 1954 (Part 11)

APPENDIX

Debye? p.ublishec.l th.e first theory of conductivity in 1914
His theory is quantitatively expressed by the formula :

o oL R AR a0
1673 3a® 4+ 1 xp* kT (9)

density of material.

Z _ propagation veloeity _of thermal waves.

. = specific heat (_)f material.

¥ = compressibility of material.

, = frequency of heat waves.

k, = Boltzmann constant.

T = absolute temperature.

a = 2P0 (subscript ¢ indicates values at temperature ¢).

Xopt

It can be seen that at high temperatures (above the Debye
temperature, where the heat capacity is approximately con-
stant) the conductivity varies inversely as the temperature,
but near the absolute zero it should increase as the square of
the temperature, if it is assumed that the heat capacity varies
as the cube of the temperature in that region. Thus, the
conductivity will go through a maximum value al some tem-
perature and it can be shown that this occurs when the tem-
perature is 0.28 times the Debyve temperature for the ma-
terial. The main drawback to this theory is the evaluation
of the constants involved—arbitrary and sweeping assump-
tions being necessary to do this. The variation of conduc-
tivity and resistivity with temperature according to this
theory is pictured in Fig. 4 (a), Part I, this series, p. 71.
The dotted lines indicate the variation of a 1/T relationship
for conductivity and the corresponding form for the resistivity
curve.

Next, Compton* published a theory which is diagrammed
in Fig. 4 (b). A quantitative expression of the theory is

 

_A»
9 cTe 22

ki=bntdRy————r 10

. 7 (10)

dmyma . .
b= " (m and my are masses of different atoms -
(my + ma)
volved).

n? = number of atoms per unit area perpendicular to heat flow.
d = distance between atoms parallel to heat flow.

R = gas constant for a single molecule.

v = frequency of oscillation of atoms.

¢ = constant to be determined from conductivity at given tem-
perature.

= absolute temperature.

8 = universal constant.

—
=
-
-
—_
—_—
—_—
—_

This gives a value of conductivity which is infinite at zero
degrees absolute. It would also seem that at some tempera-
ture (perhaps a very high one) the conductivity would become
zero and at still higher temperatures have a negative value.

Endd’s theory® is shown in Fig. 4 (¢) and is the first theory
to make use of quantum mechanics. Its quantitative ex-
pression is

hv
(4' W‘
3nkorvNa hv \* kol (11)
b = o e N e e L
5 kol 3 hv 1) /2
" kT
": = factor dependent on type of space lattice.
l'o = Boltzmann constant.
' = frequency of natural oscillation.
; = number of atoms per unit area.
. = Interatomic distance.
T~ Planck constant.
hv- absolute temperature.

k, = Debye temperature.

This indicates a definite maximum of conductivity ata tem-
berature which can be shown to be equal to .27 times thQ

¢bye temperature. The conductivity falls off to zero at
Zero degrees absolute. At higher temperatures the conduc-
Wity varies as the square root of the reciprocal of tempera-

Thermal Conductivity, VII

95
ttllre. This is the only theory which is capable of giving an
absolute value of conductivity independently of any known
value of conductivity.

E.’ei.er.ls.'3 d.eveloped the following expression for the thermal
resistivity (illustrated in Fig. 4 (d)):

r = AT + ATBe—0/2T (12)

I' = absolute temperature.
f = Debye temperature.
4 and B = constants.

Asis rea.di.l_v apparent, this theory predicts an infinite value of
conductivity at the absolute zero.

Papal.)etn}’ advanced another theory of conductivity
(shown in Fig. 4 (e)) embodied in the following equation:

 

Io Uo‘w c U ,
b= 3v (U i 3RT’) (13)
v = volume of a gram atom.
¢ = specific heat of a gram atom.
w = average propagation velocity of heat waves.
R = gas constant.
U = 3LE, where L = Loschmidt number; E = average energy

of one wave.
I = mean free path of heat wave = U,/ U.
lo = value of [ at zero absolute.
Us = value of U at zero absolute.

At high temperatures where the approximation U = 2RT =
CT can be made, the theory predicts an inverse relationship
between temperature and conductivity, and at low tempera-
tures where the first term in the parentheses can be considered
zero, the theory predicts that conductivity varies as the re-
ciprocal of the temperature squared. Although the theory
predicts the unlikely result of infinite conductivity at the ab-
solute zero, the 1/7? relationship predicted at low tempera-
ture has been found experimentally.

Makinson s in developing a theory for the thermal conduc-
tivity of metals, formulated an expression for the conductivity
of the lattice structure alone (no conducting electrons) which
should apply to electrical insulators. Since his mathematical
expression of his theory is cumbersome and unsuited to cal-
culation, it is not given here. His conclusions are pictured in
Fig. 4 (f), which show that at the higher temperatures the
conductivity falls with temperature, as in other theories, but
that, as in the theories of Debye and Endo, it goes through a
maximum and falls to zero at zero degrees absolute. This de-
crease at the low temperatures he attributes to the interference
of the boundaries of the test material with the heat waves,
which are fairly long at low temperatures. This is confirmed
experimentally by De Haas and Biermasz.? who found that the
thermal conductivity varied with the size of the specimen at
the lowest temperatures.

 

s p. Debye, Vortrage tiber die kinetische Theorie der Materie
und Elektx?;zitiit, p. 46; Gottinger Wolfskehlvortrage. B. G.
. Leipzig and Berlin, 1914. i
Te‘u Rl.lelg. Coxll)lp%on, “Physical Study of Thermal Conductivity of
:4s.”” Phys. Rev., 7, 341 (1916). o
SogldYs' Encli)(:), “Quan’tum Theory of Thermal Conducgnjxty of
Nomx;etallic Crystals,” Science Repts., Tohoku Imp. Univ., 11,
183 (1922). . TR e
(a) R. Peierls, “Zur kinetischen Theories der Wiarmeleitung
in Kristallen” (Kinetic Theory of Heat Conduction In Crys-
tals), Ann. Physik, [5] 3, 1055-1101 (1929). . Lo,
‘b; R. Peierls, “7wei Bemerkungen sur Theorie d_cr Lcltfahlg:
keit”” (Theory of Conductivity), Ann. Physik, [5] 5, 244-46
e “Wa i in Kristallen’ (Heat Con-
7 Ach. Papapetru, W argnelgxtung in Kristallen' (tfe
ducggt: in Cprystals), Physik. Z., 35 [13] 527-28 (1934); Ceram.
Abstr., 14 (1] 22 (1935). -4 L
8 E. B. Makinson, ;hei?lalQTC(olx})(:lguSc)twnty o etals,
: doe Phil. Soc., 1-97 (1938). e
Pr;) c\'\rC‘}"lgzulingetas and Th. Biermasz, “Thermal Cpnductwnty_of
Quqrti a.t Low Temperatures," Physica, 2 (2] 673-82 (1935);
Ceram. Abstr., 15 [1] 44 (1936).