2h

operation to experimentél and thecretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and soclal sciences and in engineering. '

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
flelds of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senlor staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute., Part of it is the group which
developed VWhirlwind I programming; others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the
participating colleges would join it for a semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full-time at the Center.

IBM and the Inatitute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. Ve believe that a contribution of
about g100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energlize and take the lead 1in the re-
search carried on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges. We list later ‘in this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects will develop naturally from these and

from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation

Center.

The project would not start at full strength. The 704 will
not be installed untlil January or February 1957, though analytiec
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff memberz must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. Ve estimate that a total budget of 60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, F90,000 for 1957-58 and g100,000
for 1958-59. Details are given later in this proposal. At the
peginning of 1959 the program should be re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial support
from both agencles, an 2qual share from each., Ve believe the work

can be divided so thwat meéeparate contracts can be written. Some of
the proposed tasks would be different, though some of the broader

Y¥ields of Investig:Ticn would overlap. We would hope that we could