NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ~ J Ne
EVANSTON . GHHeAGe- [pr
Ill.
THE UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL 28 July 58 EVANSTON, ILLINOIS

Professor Philip Morse, Director
MIT Computation Center
Cambridge, Mass.

Dear Professor Morse:

Confirming our recent telephone conversation, enclosed is a description and
specification of our available top programing position here at Northwestern
University.

If the person objects to the title "University Programer", we can arrange
any title he wishes. More important the job will carry full and appropriate
faculty rank if the man has the Ph.D. "Assistant Director" we hoped to hold
out for a year to see how the person developed administratively, and then
we could get him a good salary advance and promotion the second year.

If you have anyone you can suggest, we would appreciate your calling us
(collect), or writing us immediately.

 

Sincerely yours,

£) R. Aste,

J. L. Dillinger
Associate Professor of
Business Statistics
Chairman, University
Computer Committee


Computing Center
Dearborn Observatory
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY

Evanston, Illinois

15 July 58
UNIVERSITY PROGRAMING POSITION AVAILABLE

Position: Tmiversity Progromer and Fagulty rank in appropriate field
Present Programer is Assoc. Prof. of As®dnomy.

Man would be administrative head of Computing Center, and would
probably advance to ssi. Dive or Director in a year or two.

Present Center has three full-time people (University Programew,
one Asst.®Programsr, and one Machine Operator), and two part~tims

 greduate student assistants. Planned is a staff of ssvmae the
University Programer + three Asst.-Progremers » and Machine Operator
¢ two part-time Asst. Machine Operators. The five Asst. Programers
and Asst. Machine Operators would be pert~time graduate students
in various stages of Compiling Center training.

Teaching of one or two university level courses plus Ushort® courses
would average about five hours per week.

University Programer at Northwestern University ls envisioned as that
of Teacher and Consultant to Faculiy end Graduate Student
regearch = not 0 go the programing. Routine edministretlon will
be handled by very experiencsd Machine Operator, and promotion
and University policy Ty the University Computer Committee.

PhoDo in Mathematics desired.

The Northwestern University Computing Center is equipped with a
basic IBM 650 set-up.

Availebilitys Sepbe 1; 1958, if feasible.

Salary: $8,000 = 10,000 (11 months)s

Address inquiries or epplications to: Assoc. Profe Je Lo Dillinger
Cheiyman, University Commer Committees
Daarborn Observatory
Northwestern Undversity
Evanston, Illinois


Computing Center
Dearborn Observatory
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY

Evanston, Illinois

15 July 58
UNIVERSITY PROGRAMING POSITION AVAILABLE

Position: indversity Programmer and Faculty rank in appropriate field
Present Prograusr ls Agssoa. Prof. of As¥dnomye

Man would be administrative head of Computing Center, and would
probably sdvence to &sst. Dir. or Director in a year or two.

Present Center has three full-time people (University Programer,
one Asst.®Programer, and ons Machine Operator), and two part-time
preduate student assistants. Planned is a staff of sevuis tae
University Programer + three Asst.-Programers, and Machine Operator
$ two part-time Asst. Machine Operators. The five Asste Programers
and Asst. Machine Operators would be part-time graduate students
in various stages of Comping Center training.

Teaching of one or two university level courses plus %“shorif courses
would average aboul five hours per week.

University Programer at Northwestern University 1s envisioned as that
of Teacher and Consultant to Faculty and Graduate Student
regearch «= nob to do the programing. Routine administration will
be handled by very experienced Machine Operator, and promotion
and University policy Ty the University Computer Commlittee.

~
. »
4
4 :
Wek |
{
\
NF
™ ly
A
Y
»
J 0
y
ar
aA
- »
OY
. A p
- : Y
nN FP
A
5
a
ofr
¥
J

FheDe in Mathematics deslirads

The Northwestern University Computing Center isequipped with a
basic IBM 650 set-up.

% fs x . “ 7) ; put ON
Se LC LAX £. PRES el

w
ah
was

Availability: Septe 1, 1958, if feaglbla.

han AE

“p SN p Eis SA
g 7 ad Kd ’
> : py vy ru - Cd
EA wis x. (hs AA

Selarys 36,000 « 10,000 (11 months).

Address inquizies or spplications to: Assoc. Prof. Jo Lo Dillinger
Cheirman, University Comper Commlituee
Daaxrborn Observatory
Northwestern Univergllty
Evanston, JTllinois


