Minutes of Meeting of Committee
on
Wachine Methods of Computation
November 29, 1950

Members Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, 4. Kopal,
P. M. Morse and E. Kelssner

Professors Kopal and Forrester presented the Commlttee
with the general subjects which are included in the Electrical
Engineering general doctor's examination. They come under
nine general headings:

Circult Theory

Power Machinery
Magnetic Clrcuits
Engineering Electronics
VT Circuits

Electrical Measurements
Transmission Lines
Basic Physics 1

Basic Physics IX

a =

O 08 3 CNUs

After considerable discussion the Committee felt that probably
a man taking a doctor's degree in the E. E. Department, with
specialization in computing macuines, shoulda be required to
pass en examination in the mz jority of taese subjects, but
tnat perhaps one-third of them could be dropped &nd in their
place more material on Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
could be required. It was suggested tentatively that power
machinery and electrical measurements umignt be dropped, and
that in their place questions coulda be asked on differential
equations, complex variables, algebra and numerical analysis,
corresponding to about the length and deptn of the questions
on the two omitted subjects. In adaition, it was felt that
Basic Physics II could be somewhat remodeled to include more
of Theoretical Physics, particularly of electromagnetic theory
then is given to most of the E. BE. candidates. 1t was felt
that the Committee should discuss this with Professor Brown

at its next meeting, Lf Professor Brown were zble to attend.

The Committee then went on to discuss the four E. E.
doctor's candidates who nuve already teéken their qualifying
examinations and are beginning, or are gbout to begin, thelr
thesis research. It was reported that Mr. Salzer already has
a supervisory committee consisting of Professors Kopal, Hazen
and Linville, This was felt to be an appropriate committee
and there was no suggestion to make any change here. In the


fiinutes of Meeting of Coummittee
on Machine betnods of Computation -2-
November 29, 1950

other three cases - Hzmu, Verzuh and Dolansky - it was felt
that we should talk the matter of specific appointments for

supervisory committees over with Professor Brown at the next
meeting.

It was suggested that the qualifying examination in
Mathematics be examined; in tine suaue way that the Electrical
Engineering examination was discussed, at the next meeting of
this Committee. Consequently, the subject of the qualifying
examination for persons coming in to this field from the
Mathematics Department 1s to be the first subject of dis-
cussion at the meeting on December 6. It is hoped that Pro-
fessor Brown can come in to discuss the E. E. questions after
ten o'clock.

Another subject for future discussion is the guestion of
a Summer Symposium. Mr, Forrester reported that, in his
opinion, thls coming Summer would be & little too early to
put on & full-fledged Summer scunedule on macinine computation.
On the other nand, it was felt that there was a possibility
that a one~, two-, or three-day session or symposium on the
subject could be held. ©Since this does not require the
elaborate preparation which & full-fledged Sumuer Session re-
quires, it was decided tnat we should not reacin & decision at
this meeting but should bring it up from time to time in the
next several months. It was also decided that the question of
the courses on machine computation, which are given at present
at tiie Institute and the possibilities of other courses which
snould be given, would be taken up in the near future, perhaps
at the December 13th meeting. Anotiner subject of considerable
importance which would nave to be taken up at that time or
later wlll be the listing of the various computing machines
at present operating and under construction at the Institute,
and a survey of their availability for training and general
research use, This sort of survey will be necessary befors
general policy on this question can be discussed,

The next meeting of the Committee will be at 9:30,
December 6, in Room 6-109.

\ Cac NW S$.
Se —

Chairman


