» robiens concerning Ai nt rela

activities will vary with the variety of a supporting. on is.

a the ‘governaent, but will ‘also depend ¢ on the varistins 6 of f antversittes
2 and their computer activities. 2 ap oe AVE

| 7 The variables to be considered - the government. ‘saamoten are:

 

he o are their fuads paraaried £ for  peodustions devslopusst,

cal a

   

“2h So stor” supporting th the computer activity darediiy; 9 or : only ; 4

indirectly as ‘explicitly budgeted service for Andividval She
projects, or indirectly as overnead to individual rogeetet

3 1 is their support one-shot or continuing? year by year or for A

a number of years? Do they recognize that an initial capital

 

support entails a commitment to year-ia-year-out operating
expenses thenceforth? Is provision made for the h hidden over-
head of obsolescence and replacement?
it should be recognized that ‘the very variety of ln agencies or
variety of policies among divisions of the same agency © can cause loss |
of support because each can expect another vo pick up the responsibility.
This is probably ome of the main reasons for this conferences.
The variables among universities are
1. state supported VS. privately endowed
2, generalized Vse specialized le.gs LO technology)
3, mew ia computers ve. already deeply involved;
In either Case, how much need 1s there for analogue facilities and con=
version £xkkeiiiks facilities?
be Owning Vse renting Vs. building

5, saall, medium, OF large machines; contracted or local maintenance;


sre  srained operators required? PEA gra He a
Computer activity centralized or decentralised? 2 decens

: tralised, is it only within the sntverstuy or  iavolving. a

: & number of universities? eR

Fa
is ~ depar tment, the physics department, statistics, business ple
school, engineering, or under the comptroller? : 3 fe
8.
in circuits, logic design, ‘programming, I analysis,
information retrieval, or in mechantsns ant’ Y aystons? « 1s oy Rerathe
it in tangent areas like linguistics, peyehology, human an= Sieh 5

9.

10,

11,

} r= 5

| ir centralised, is iv universtty-ulds, under the  athenattes

Is there resesrch in the computer area itself? Ir so, is it

 

gineering, systems engineering, or business adninistration? |
is there both research in the area and service to others? uw
80, is the service open or closed=shop?

is automatic coding available?

Do the customers need analogue to digital conversion?

Is the education on Computer: use restricted to specially do-
signated courses or do many courses scattered around the |
university include computer usag ge? Is the computer education
for undergraduates as well as graduates?

is a special curriculum with special degrees evolving? Are
they already in existence?

*t is most likely that we will agree only if each recommendation
has explicitgly stated boundary conditions with respect to these
variables, and will be unable to agree on completely general

blanket recommendations.

ro 3
ER EE SI a aap ME LE ER Se RE
a LK on He g & 2 we vi & 2 hk A oe Ss ah Ed CE i ; E NE Fin 328 . oy “ ny ots
og 2 Bie = a
tr & ; ry fd © PO
y od = C- 2- iy . * 4 AL - Z
si
kg a
=


a. part of general university overhesd?
be block support for computing

 

o BS: facilivy adnintstration? gy Re Ee
Co individual support in a project a = ENE Ter Sg
2 els programaing personnel on the project?
PEL et ez: programming service from the facility? | 5 Po
155 g3e marking Simet ou MBean nihe SER LS

Ch: general computer overhead?

In discussing these questions fecessary to inves gate

 

certain combinations of these policies can exist in steady state to=
gether. For example - a charge’ solicy of the form: "those who can
pay get first priority and those who cannot get second priority"
cannot eX1L8G in steady state with a facility which is bedgeted we
bfeak even ==(example)s In general economic laws will cause cheaper

services to drive more expensive ones out of circulation, and Gresham's

daw will similarly favor lower standards against high quality.


