supervisory and faculty staff, the other colleges have also con=

ributed faculty time. Machine time 1s free, though the user must
orepare his own coded program. To date faculty and students from

T colleges and universities have used the facilities and 150 problems
e being or have been run, representing several dozen different
cientific, engineering and academic fields. Detalls of the program are
re given in the gppended Progress Report.

A
c-“4
» ?

3

!

\
-

L

<

4

a 2 N

\

Q

9

Here is a combination ideally suited for the prosecution of
regsearch directed toward reducing the'"mismatch" between the machine
and the occasional user. All that is needed to start a vigorous
program are additional funds to augment the staff, which are at present
too busy helping individual users to have time to work out the improved
technigues suggested by their present work. No money is needed for
machine rental or maintenance; this 1s already supplied by IBM. Nor
is money needed for machine operators or card-punch operators., The
additional funds can be used entirely in suppédrting the additional
staff needed to intensify the research on machine behavior and to work
cut the improved techniques for machine use arising therefrom, and in
purchasing or congtructing the special input-output equipment which
will increase the machine’s flexibility. :

This special support need not be continued indefinitely. An
intensive program for three to five years should solve many of the
outstanding problems and enable the Center to drop back to its present
level of expenditure, but with a greatly enhanced utility to the
academic fraternity in New England because of tThe results of the
program. The results of the work will be lmmediately available To
the several hundred other 704 installations and, with 1little additional
medification, to the users of other makes of digltal computers. |
Present makes of digital compubters have many more properties in common
than differences, and what is learned on one machine can be carried
over to the others without much modification. |

Development of Utllity Programs - In addition to assisting
individual users in putting their problem on the machine, the Center
staff have the important task of making the machine easier to use by
all users. It always takes time, the experience of many users, to
reveal all the capabilities of any piece of machinery; this 1is
particularly true of high-speed computers. Because of their speed

and complexity it may take a dozen years or more before even the full
capabilities of our present machines are known, and by that time
machines of still more speed and complexity will be built. A computer
of the size of the 704 has an order of complexity such that its -
designers literally are not aware of all of its capabilities, con-
sequently it is important that research into these capabilitles be
carried on: such research, revealing easier ways of cbtaining results
and new methods of operation, may at times go farther in increasing
mochine serviceabllity for the general user than can the providing of
a new machine with increased speed or capacliy.