A PERIODIC ALGORITHM FOR CUBIC FORMS*

By HARVEY Conn.

 

1, Introduction. In a very famous memoir in 189

set up a continued fraction type of algorithm for the product of three real
linear homogeneous forms in three integral variables. By the precedent set
in the ordinary theory of binary quadratic forms, such an algorithm has to
supply a deﬁnition of reduced form with several properties; First

‘ . of all every
form should be equivalent under unimodular change of variables to one or
more reduced forms. Furthermore a concept of neighboring form should be

present so that the reduced forms will arrange themselves into chains.
Finally when the three linear forms are conjugates,

6 , Minkowski [5]

each spanning a (totally
real) cubic module, the number of distinct reduced forms should be ﬁnite.

Probably the most immediate application of such an algorithm would be the
determination of units of a totally real cubic ﬁeld as automorphs within
the ﬁnite chain of forms.

The purpose of this work is to present a new algorithm for such cubic
forms, combining some of the features of an ordinary (modiﬁed) continued
fraction algorithm with some of the features of Minkowski’s algorithm. This
new algorithm follows the former one to the extent that reduction is based on
a visually convenient array of + and —— signs rather than on “admissible”
bodies; and it follows the latter algorithm to the extent that the proof given
here for the reduction theorem uses Minkowski’s work as a convenient starting
point. Once the theoretical aspects are established, it will be seen that the

actual calculations in cubic ﬁelds are very simple, although the units obtained
there are far from thoroughly investigated.

2. Modiﬁed simple continued fraction algorithm. The familiar simple
continued fraction (for binary quadratic forms) of course fulﬁls the above
requirements par excellence. We present a modiﬁcation to emphasize some
curious resemblances to the deﬁnition of reduced forms that we presently
give for cubics. The quadratic form may be written

(2) @(n,m) =$1mg,

\

“Received August 27, 1951.

Research currently sponsored by the U. S. Army
0. 0. R.

821