THE EDUCATIONAL CONCEPT OF COMPUTERS AS A NEW TOOL

Introduction

Each year there is an increasingly large number of analog and
digital computers availlable for general use. Since these computers command
the attention of more pecple each year, the need for introducing the
principles of computers as & new tcool in Science and Engineering curricula
is correspondingly increased. However, the best methed for acquainting the
student with this new teol is not as evident.

- Eech of us has learned at some time or other that the slide rule is
a very useful aid to the college student. As & matter of fact, some people
still consider & slide rule to be an indispensible aid in their work. I am
certain that all of us were pleased to learn how much more rapidly and accu-
rately we could effect multiplication, division and transcendemtal operations
with a slide rule. The following question naturally arises: When should we
teach students the use of the slide rule? Obviously, if it is too soom in
their educational training, they may never learrn to multiply or divide. Based
on your individual personal experience, each of you can answsr the question
concerning the slide rule.

The next question which naturally arises is: - When and how should
we teach students the principles of computers? Again, each of you has an
answver to this guestion. cgrtainly. all the answers will not be the same --
although they may be equally correct. M.I.T.'s answer to this question is
illustrated in Figure 1 which liste the graduate subjects offered im the field
of automatic computation.

The purpose of this paper is not to describe the entire package of
subjects, but rather, to discuss the undergraduate subject: MACHINE-AIDED
ANALYSIS. In this subject a determined effort is made to portray computers
in their true light -- not as mythical brains, but as an effective tool to be

used by the undergraduste in his particular field both in school and leter in
industry.

Need for Undergraduate Computer Training
The first packege of graduaste subjects in computation was offered

at M.I.T. in 1847. Although these subjects were most effective, it soon
became apparent that they hed one general defect: they were graduate subjects