minutes of Meeting of Committee
on Machine Methods of Computation -2-
November 29, 1950

other three cases — Hamm, Verzuh and Dolanshy — it was felt
that we should talk the matter of specific appointments for

supervisory committees over with Professor Brown at the next
meeting.

It was suggested that the qualifying examination in
Mathematics be exemined,in the same way that the Electrical
Engineering examination was discussed,at the next meeting of
this Committee. Consequently, the subject of the qualifying
examination for persons coming in to this field from the
Mathematics Department is to be the first subject of dis-
cussion at the meeting on December 6. It is hoped that Pro—

fessor Brown can come in to discuss the E. E. questions after
ten o'clock.

Another subject for future discussion is the question of
a Summer Symposium. Mr. Forrester reported that, in his
opinion, this coming Summer would be a little too early to
put on a full-fledged Summer schedule on machine computation.
0n the other hand, it was felt that there was a possibility
that a one~, two—, or threeoday session or symposium on the
subject could be held. Since this does not require the
elaborate preparation which a full-fledged Summer Session re-
quires, it was decided that we should not recon a decision at
this meeting but should bring it up from time to time in the
next several months. It was also decided Enbt the question of
the courses on machine computation, wnich are given at present
at the Institute and the possibilities of other courses wnich
should be given, would be tazen up in the near future, perhaps
at the December 13th meeting. Another subject of considerable
importance which would have to be taken up at that time or
later will be the listing of the various computing machines
at present operating and under construction at the Institute,
and a survey of their availability for training and general
research use. This sort of survey will be necessary before
general policy on this question can be discussed.

The next meetin of the Committee will be at 9:30,
December 6, in Room -lO9.

i in s
Ph‘ﬂh>me:\\

Chairmen