i

‘e

Qe

PROGRAM WRITEUP

MIDPME «= DOUBLE-PHRECISION SOLUTION OF MATRIX LQUATIONS

‘R.M. Moroney 9 July 1958
M.I.T, “Operations Research Project

This routine is dedicated to the proposition that anybody fooling around
with double~precision numbers is worried about loss of significant figures
somewhere, and very likely in the solution of a set of linear equations.
Consequently no computer time is spared in milking the best possible re-
suits from the coefficient matrix supplied, and an estimate of the signi-

ficant figures in the solution vector is computed.

a. This routine requires one tape unit whose logical number ant be spe=
cified by a card of the form: NINE EQU X . X is normally 9.

b. This routine contains a modified version of RS005 which is available
to the user. Modifications consist only of return to x + 1 instead of

X + 2 on the two sequences TSX S005, L and TSX S005 + Ss 4. This rou-

REE ei.

tine contains a tapewriting routine BOUTS, and a tape reading routine
BLINS, which are available to the user. See Appendix I. This routine
contains a set of float ingwnelat chscking routines ADDOV, MULTO, and
DIVCK, which are available i the user. See Appendix II.

c. The coefficient matrix and right-hand side must be in normal form for
RS005, i.e. least-significant part of number in register succeeding
most-significant part, aggreement in sign between both parts, exponent
of least-significant part 33 (octal) less than that of most significant |
part. Error estimates must be normaliged single-register floating-point |

numbers (error estimates will be defined later).


c. Convergence of step c¢ in lL, above is assured because we have

BR. 2 A x, = b
Rep 24% =b=AI~il)x + Mb-D
= (I - &0R
and our check of I - Ad assures convergence in the norm atx |x, | .

de. For step d above see Hildebrand Introduction to Numerical Analysis,

pp. L436 ff.

5. Calling Sequence: X TSX DMEBE, I
| X+1 PZE AQ,B
X+2 PZECOD
X + 3 PZE E
X +) Error return
+5 Normal Return
Where: A is the FWA of the coefficient matrix, stored by columns.

B is the dimension.

C is the FW. of 2n X n consecutive registers, separated from X,
A,D snd E, which may be used by the program for temporary
workspace. Contents of these registers will be restored.

D is the FWA of the right-hand side.

E is the FWA of a set of B single-register floating-point numbers,
the 8 number being an estimate of the maximum magnitude of
error in any element of the Wb row of the coefficient matrix.
These numbers are stored in every second register, and are un-

disturbed.


5b.

Sc.

5d,

In addition to the regigters mentioned above, the Jn + 3 registers fol.
lowing the Coefficient matrix are destroyed, COMUON though COMMON «+ 7 is

required,

SAVET + 2 Two tries failed to produce a readable record on MT-NINE

SAVE A + 2 LB |
CORR + 2 »

SAVEM + 2 ’

SEVEC + 2 "

NOCON Iteration nay diverge (111-condiioneg matrix)
RESTT Two attempts to read MI-NINE failed

DNEXT he

DNEX3 "

The following additional eppor indications ape provided:
Sense light 1 on 8% exit meang that the routine, which slakes part
of its thirst fop temporary storage by writing over itself, has failed
to return to its initial condition. pkg will contain HIR 0,
Sense light 2 on at exit means that the Posgible errop in some element
of the solution vector ig greater than the Magnitude of the element,
ADDOV, MuLTO and DIVCK aigo ®@ntain erpor stops,

The error retum indicateg;
2. With AC = 0, a loss of bits in cope mnenory,

b. With Ac Non-gero, ap Overflow in the double~precigiop arithmetic

On nomyay return, the Solution vectop is stored ip D, register ORT, which
is A +(2nx n) + 2, and €Very second register following contain integers
Tépresent ing the approximate number of Significant binary digits in each

element of the Solution vecopp, A is the next record on MT-NINE:


6. Constants available start at LO, and run to DNEXT. These include
0, 1, 2, 1 ficating, etc.
7. This routine was tested om the 10 X 10 segment of the infamous

Hilbert Matrix, octal cards for which are included, (sce Appendix Iv).


APPENDIX I

BOUTS TAPE WRITING ROUTINE

Calling sequence: TSX BOUTS,L

PZE §, 0, FWA

Error Return

SLW (normal return)
This routine writes the block of N words starting at FWA on MT-NINE and
computes the CAD checksum. Tape is then backspsced and reread to check
for a legible record. Failure of the check causes a second writing and
check, failure of which causes error return. On nomal return, CAD
checksum ig in AC to be stored for later use with BLINS. Index 1 is

destroyed.

BLINS TAPE READING ROUTINE

Calling sequence: CAL (pickup checksum for this block)

TSX BLINS,L4

PZE N, 0, FWA

Error Return

Normal Return
This routine reads the next block of N words from MI-NINE into core memory
starting at location FWA, A CAD checksum is compared with the contents of
AC at entry. On disggreement, tape is backspaced and a second attempt at
reading is made. Failure of this attempt results in an error return. Pre-
sence of an end-of-file or end-oferecord before N words sre read also initiates

the error procedure. Index 1 is destroyed.

Vd Ee EE RAY wo Nye


APPENDIX II

ADDOV Check lights after floating-point addition.
Calling Sequence: FAD
ISX ADDOV, L

If lights indicate en overflow, error stop occurs at ADDOV + 4. On AC under

flow AC is set to zero.

MULTO Check lights after floating-point multiplication.
Calling Sequence: FuP
TSX MULTO,
Ovefflow causes error stop in MULTO + 3 or MULTO + 6. AC underflow gives AC

Gero

DIVCK Check lights after floating-point division.
Calling sequence: FDP
TSX DIVCK,L
Divide check light causes error stop in DIVCK + 1. MQ set to zero on MQ

underflow. MQ overflow causes error stop in DIVCK + 1l.

All routines normally return to X + 1.


APPENDIX IIT

RB)
(1

2}
DNEXT Solve matrix equation A x £ b", when £ x = b has been solved by MIDPUE.

1. This routine provides a Large saying in time when solving for a new
fight-hend side. Calling sequence is same as for MIDPME except that X
must contain TSX DNEXT,L. Resulth, error stops, etc. are &ll the same
as MIDPE. ’ | \

a

>.  WIDPYE writes five records on MT-NINE: O, A, D, M, I - MA. D is the
first 6n instructions of MIDME, the other letters are explained in the
main writeup. Upon exit from MIDME, MT-NINE is positioned to read A as
‘the next record. This is for convenience of user, who may want to read

in A by BLINS; the necessary CAD checksum is stored in SuCK A,

DNEXT spaces down to M and reads it into memory to form Mb'. It then

 

 

reads in I - lA and starts iterating. The parts of MIDPiE that form M and
check I = AM are skipped, thus saving considerable time. DNEXT restores
C on exit, but since it uses the block written by HIDPME, changes in C

hetween use of MIDPME and DNEXT will be lost.

Ea tS a ————————

|


APPENDIX IV

MIHIL1O Hilbert Matrix of order 10, double~precision in sense of RS005.

These cards contain the segment of order ten of the Hilbert matrix, in the
form of RSO0S double-precision numbers, correctly rounded to 18 octal digits.
They are designed to save the next guy the exercise in decimal~to=octal con=-
version this writer undertook. Note that if the least~significant parts of
the matrix sre sorted out for single~precision work, the remaining numbers

will be incorrectly rounded in = number of cases,


