March 1957

REQUEST FOR SUPPORT FROM THE OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
FOR_SUPPORT OF RESEARCH IN

—_— Seemann adi

DIGITAL COMPUTER METHODS IN OPERATIONS RESEARCH

Ba A EA Ol a Se a

Background

With the installation of the IBM TO4 in the new Computation
Center, it becomes possible to expand our basic work in Operations
Research in directions which will utilize the capabilities of this
new high-speed electronic computer. After consultation with
Dr. T. J. Killian and with Drs. J. Weyl, A. Grad and C. F. Mucken-
houpt of ONR, we herewith submit a proposal for a project in this
area, to be supervised by Prof. P. M. Morse, Director of the
Computation Center, Dr. H. P. Gallliher, Assistant Director of the
MIT Operations Research project, and Prof. Dean N. Arden, Head of
the Programming Research Section of the Computation Center.

 

Proposal

A program of research is proposed in the areas of linear
programming and queuing theory, and particularly into methods of
utilizing high-speed computation techniques in the solution of
certain problems in these areas. The purpose of the research is
fo extend progress already made in these fields. Initial phases
of the research are described below. Experimental testing of
methods developed will be made on the IBM TOU now being made
ready at the new MIT Computation Center.

Nature of the Investigation

Work will be in the related fields of linear programming
and queuing:

Linear Programming. Research has already been initiated, and
shows promise, in the application of special approaches to the
computer solution of problems involving flow of one or more
commodities through capacitated networks which enable the come
puter to take advantage of the special structure of specific
problems to shorten computation time.

Research will also be done on more efficient algorithms for
the solution of general linear programming problems. In particu-
lar the primal-dual method developed by the RAND Corporation is
currently being programmed for the IBM 704 and possible exten-
sions of the method are being investigated.

The practical importance of the techniques will be tested
on scheduling and warehousing problems with or without uncertain
demands as well as dynamic scheduling and allocation problems.


ONR Proposal - 3/57 | Page 2

Nature of the Investigation, continued

Jueulng. In the field of queuing, work is proposed in the follow-
ng two areas:

Tabulations of waiting-line functions. Fairly extensive tables
of waiting-line functions for Poisson arrivals and varying distri-
butions of servicing time will be available to the public within
the next year. An increasing demand for such tabulations when
arrivals are not Poisson is being expressed. Methods for calcu-
lating such functions have already been developed. As part of
this research it is proposed to determine and make suitable tabula-
tions of these functions, for publication, on the IBM TO4 computer
at MIT. :

Study of transient queuing behavior. Methods have been developed
for high-speed computation of the short-term behavior of certain
queuing situations and these have recently been successfully
applied to a case of airport operation. Transient situations offer
serious problems in the successful operation of military, naval and
civil installations. As part of this research further mathematical
analysis will be made of these problems with the primary purpose of
providing practical computational methods. The IBM 704 computer
will be used to test such methods. :

Budget Proposed

The cost of this work will be primarily for staff salaries,
since no direct charge is made for time on the 7TO4. The charges
made by the Computation Center for programming and general service
in the use of the machine by projects at MIT will average between
$180 and $200 per hour of use of the machine, so that total compu-
tation charges will be only about a quarter of the budget.

Approximately $19,700 (see Enclosure A) is estimated as
required to support this research for a one=year period. Starting
date is to be July 1, 1957. Past experience of progress in this
field suggests that a continuation beyond a one-year period can
be expected to prove worth considering.

Supervision

The project, for which the title "Computer Methods in Opera-
tions Research" is suggested, will be under the general supervision
of Prof. Philip M. Morse. Direct responsibility for the research
to be carried out will be assumed by Prof. Dean N. Arden of the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Dr. Herbert P. Galliher
of the Institute's Division of Sponsored Research, with an
assisting staff equivalent to 3 research assistants part time.

Both Prof. Arden and Dr. Galliher have been active in the direction
of operations research work at the Institute and ln the conduct
personally of research and computer use in the proposed areas.


ONR Proposal - 3/57 Page 3

Prof. Arden 1s Director of Programming Research for the new
Computation Center. Dr. Galliher 1s at present Assistant Director
of the Institute's Operations Research Project. Enclosure B
describes some of their previous work related to this proposal.

Recommendation

It is proposed that $19,700 be granted for the 1957-58 SJ 2Ps
for work as outlined, and that discussions be commenced thi
summer or next fall for continuation of the work, at about the
same rate, through the year 1958-59, so that the senior staff
will not be lost to other projects because of uncertainties of
funding for the following year.

 

Signed

 

Approved

Carl FP. Floe
Assistant Chancellor

Dr. F. L. Foster, Director

Division of Sponsored Research

Enclosures A and B

——— TE ——— i  — I —— i ———— Fr —

Date


ONR Proposal - 3/57

ENCLOSURE_A

—— in BO A A MENA i OCT Bo

Budget for 1957-58
Staff
1 member, Research Staff, DSR (part time)

2 1/2 time Research Assistants, or equivalent
1 Secretary, 1/6 time

Overhead estimated at 45 percent

Total salaries, wages and overhead
Computation
Travel

Reports

Materials and services

TOTAL for the year

Page 4

3,000
5,400
500

8,900
4,005

 

12,905

5,000
950
600
200

 

$19,655


ONR Proposal - 3/57 Page 5

ENCLOSURE B

Dr. Herbert P. Galliher

1953-54 Member Operations Research Group, Arthur D.
Little, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.

1954-date Operations Research Project, M.I.T.; currently
Assistant Director

Professional Societies American Mathematical Society,
Operations Research Society
Institute of Management Sciences

Research Primarily in queuing theory, as reported in
Interim Technical Reports 2, 3, 4 of Army
Ordnance Contract DA-19=020-ORD-2684.

Publications 1. "Attendance and U%e of the Science
Library at M.I.T.", by G. C. Bush,
H. P. Galliher and P. M. Morse,
American Documentation 7, 87 (1956).

2, "Tables of Poisscn-Erlang Queuelng
Functions" = book, currently in
progress, to be completed in Sep-
tember, 1957, and published as a
‘society monograph by the Operations
Research Society of America.

Prof. Dean N. Arden
1946-50 Instructor in Mathematics, Purdue University
1950-53 Willow Run Research Center and Tabulating Service,
University of Michigan. Experience in electronip
analogue equipment and conventional IBM machines.
1953-55 Digital Computer Laboratory, M.I.T.
1955-56 Assistant Professor, Electrical Engineering Dept.,

M.I.T., and Research Director, M.I.T. Computation
Center.

Professional Societies American Mathematical Society

Research Numerical Analysis, Linear Programmi:
Computer Design. ? % 18.


