=D

. Since the Computation contar is continuing to provide the
touo'ung services:

1) 8ciestific computing for the MIT family,
2i Edﬁutim’l training of staff and student body,

3} Research in new ecmputing uthoda for the eantire
HIT family,

it is logical to Fequest that some of the remsining funds in the former
Statigtical Services accounts be used as pert of the operating budget of
the Computation Comter. Indeed this has been done and $12,500 was
appropyiated from the regorve account 2789, and set up as an account to
provide furpiture and equipment for the new Computation Center., There
are additional expenses which have besn and will bg incurred during the

.next figcal period. Additionnl funds hava beon raquosted for this purposc.

3.2 Available Funds im Existing DSR Project 8345

3.3

The need of the MIT family for & high-spesd compuler has bean
satigfied during the past five years by the use of the Whirlwind Computer,
Speeiﬁeauy, the Digital Computer lLaboratory group -- under the direction
of'F., M, Verzuh, has cperated the Whirlwind Computer for use by the MIT
family Zor forty (40) hourz each weck, (The romaining three shifts of
the Whirltsind Computer has bseen used by various Lincoln projeccta.)

: On November 1, 1954, a rate structure for the Vhiriwind Computer
wRs establiahed. Certain DSR projects were charged $350 per hour for the
ugse of this facility., Tho cost of operating and maintaining the ICL staff
was largely defraysd by this $250 usage charge (except by occasional

- contributions by ONR). Teble VI contains & summary of tho operating balance
- exisgting in the DCL Project 6345 at the end of ecach figcsl period, It is

apperent from this table. that there is a balance of $88,887.90 available
to be uged for completing the studies requested by ONE and to terminate the
project on June 30, 1958,

Operatiag FLnds Available I?m ttzo IBM Corporatica

In addition to the large IBM contribution to the building fumd,
the IEM Corporation is making a number of contributions to defray the
cost of operating the Computation Center., Table VII summerizss the
operating fund contributions made by the IB¥ Corporaticn., ¢ is apparent
that eside from the bullding maintencnce and mansgement contribution,
the IBM Corporatica is directly comtributing epproximately $55,000 per.
year to the cost of opereting the Computation Center. The appendix to

t his report summarizes the total contribution made by the IB¥ Corporation,