TO: Professor P. M. Morse
FROM: F. M, Verzuh
DATE: February 15, 1956

SUBJECT: Material for National Science Foundation Proposal

A ——— ———————————————

In accordance with our discussions regarding the proposal to NSF,
enclosing the following information.

Machine Complement of the M.I.T. Computation Center

The M.I.T. Computation Center will have a Type 704 Electronic

~ Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:

12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units containing a
total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 4,000 words

of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alphabetic printer ’
and punched card recorder as well as the 3 off-line magnetic tape

controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled card punch, and punched
card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively. Total machine

 

“complement net monthly. rental is slightly over $45,000. In addition

to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card machines including
card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers, interpreters , and the
Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate machine rental is in
excess of § 50,000 per month.

The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the M.I.T. installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques s Programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of universal use.

Biographical Information

Dr. F. M. Verzuh, Director of Statistical Services, has been
connected with the operation of M.I.T. computational work since 1940.
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the utilization
of various analog computing equipment -- differential analyzers, etc.,
as well as a complete line of digital machines ranging from the IBM
Type 601 through the Type 704.

He received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the
University of Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering
from M.X.T. in 1946, and a ScD. degree in Electrical Engineering from
M.I.T., in 1952,


i

In the 0ffice of Statistical Services he is concerned with the
utilization of IBEm punched cayd equipment to fulfill the need of the
M.I.T. educational and research projects. In thig connection a
number of research contracts have been ©xecuted for various branches
of the armed services. In July, 1955 he was Placed in charge of the
operation of the Whirlwind Computer -- the high-speed machine currently
used for scientific research at the Institute, Again, several research
projects are being conducted using this Computer as a basic tool.


