he 0

Tos Herbert Teager “0 Dates March 15, 1961
From: John McCarthy

Sub jects Suggestions Inspired by your January 3 Report on the
HES Time-Sharing Project ;

 

1 £inally got around to reading your January peporst on the
time-sharing project. All your short range plans seem quite
feasible to me. AF. Lo ihe a natial :.

However, I have some suggestions that might peduce the com-
plexity of the modifications to the T0990 that are required. The
programneing scheme is similar to that outlined in your report,

7 and the idea, which avoids full boundary registers, occurred to
me after reading the report. ; ; io

EE —

1. Machine modifications, We add 2 node of operation,t-mode,
which can ve entered and left bY sultable instructions. It has
two submodes, hi and 10. When the machine is in t-mode, the high
opder bit of the memory address register 1s fixed to be either
1 or 0 according to the hi or 10 submode and cannot be changed by
instructions. Thus the program operates in high or low memory
regardless of how jt is written. In addition, a speclal circult
formas the or of bits 2 thru 5 and traps if this has value 0. This
and all other traps turn off t-mode.

 

2, Time-sharing systems. The effect of this hardware 18 that
3096 words (2048 at the beginning of memory and 2048 in the middle)
ape preserved for the cime~sharing system. The rest of memory is
divided into Two plocks of 14336 registers. At any moment one of
these blocks is being used by a user's program or by a compller
working for a user and the other 1s being swapped with disk file.

All programs except the time-sharing system are compiled

between registers 2048 and 16383 but can actually run either in
low or high memory secording to lo or ni submode. The Uime-
sharing system handling all input-outpulb and traps occuples
0-2047 and 16384-18431. Having it divided into two blocks is a
mild inconveneince but allows the trap condition to be & gimple
or circulb.


2a

3. Disc file requirement. Unless we have enough disc file
heads, some time will be lost in seeking in this System. The X=
change of Programs requires two heads, ye allow the heaq that is
reading out one dise revolution head start, It would be nige if
two other heads wepe avallable to work on the currently running
Program as S00n as it was cut off, Also, the time-sharing

€xecutive may need a head or two for when its input op output
buffers £111 Up or empty, | |

4, Programming Systems, Concerning the advanced Programming
languages, I have no comment, 7 ¢an only wish you goog luck,

Your idea of segmenting the eonventional Programming
Systems is certainly feasible but may be Unnecessary, I bet that
| 14, eglsters including working
storage, and I am pretty sure that we ean shoe-~horn a version of
LISP into the space that will be adequate for subroutine debugging

and student work. Our blg LISP System will then be reserved for
overnight runs,

pai

Carbon copies: P., M. Morse
Fo J. Corbatos
M. L. Minsky


