commas ON mum: muons OP COMPUTATIOII
Himates g; the Fifth Meta;
January 15, 1955

Parsons Present: 6. S. Brown, S. E. Caldwell, J. H. Forrester,

P. Hildebrand, J. A. Hrones, c. c. Lin,
P. a. Horse, V. VI. Seifert, F. .H. Verzuh

The initial discussion concerned the form of the pro-
posed report on future plans for large computing machines in the
Institute. Horse asked Adams, Seifert, and Verzuh to work up a
preliminary draft on the present situation of the large ﬁachines
at the Institute, their budget, their. distribution of effort
(project work, class aids, educational research). This draft
should only “be several pages in length. The Committee as a whole
can then modify it appropriately later.

Professor Gordon Brown of the Electrical Engineering
Department then talked on the future need for machines at the
Institute. He emphasized that machines should not be considered
Just as other gadgets to be supported as such but that machines -
should always be considered in connection with broad scientific
problems which the Institute feels itwshould pursue. cannon
pointed out that there are three areas wherein machines are use»
ful at the Institute: .

(1) In helping classroom teaching in numerical
analysis and machine programming,

\

(2) Educational research carried on by the faculty
and students; here the machine would be a service facility which
would make possible certain research otherwise not possible,

(3) Project research machines specifically to solve
large problems related to the general trends of the Inatitute's
work as discussed by Professor Brown.

The further discussion indicated that with regard to
(3) there should he no great difficulty in finanei and that the
size and budget for equipment to satisfy (1) and (2 must be very
carefully looked into.

The next meeting of the Machine Gomittee will be at
3:00 pan... mireday, February 11. horse will endeavor to have
Professor Draper present to continue this discussion.

Ni) . - “5X0
\‘A 33“)? ‘ a
shunt.“ ‘ [SEW
Chairman

FEM-TH


