COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

BULLETIN

No. 23
July 16, 1962

SUGGESTION

The Center suggests that you file these BULLETINS as
informal supplements to your Procedures Handbook.

PROGRAMMING COURSE

There will be a one week programming course given by
the Computation Center during the period September 4 through
September 8, Classes will meet from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
each day at the Computation Center with morning lectures
and afternoon laboratory use of the computer.

The course presentation will not assume any previous
computer experience. Emphasis will be primarily on
programming with the FORTRAN compiler language, but the use
of the FAP Assembler Language and the MAD compiler will also
be included. The 7090 Monitor System which allows flexible
and automatic operation of the computer will be described,
In addition, the procedures and conventions of the Center
will be reviewed. Participants will have the opportunity
to run programs they have written during the course.

Additional information and application forms may be
obtained from MIT Department Headquarters, New England
Institutional Representatives or from Miss Sandra Parrella
at the Computation Center, Room 26-142.

COMPUTATION CENTER MEMORANDA

 

The following CC memos of general interest have been
released since the last BULLETIN. Copies may be obtained
in Room 26-142,

CC-174-1 Description of a FAP Version of XSIMEGCF,

XDETRMF. An update of the write-up of
the subprogram to solve a set of
simultaneous equations and evaluate a

determinant.


-e

CC-176-1 Octal Correction Cards Within the FMS
System. n update of the description
=F octal correction cards.

EQUIPMENT CHANGES

About the middle of August, the Center will install
an IBM 1301 Disk File as a high-speed auxiliary memory
device replacing the tape units on channel C of the 7090.
The installation of the Disk File should take several
days; the 7090 will not be in operation at this time.

Since proper use of this file by many users requires
a standard executive program, this device may become
available only on a limited basis and then only after the
Center is satisfied that the necessary subprograms are
available and checked out.
TIME ESTIMATES

The following is a revision of time estimates from
those published in BULLETIN 20:

FORTRAN
.2 + .004n = minutes/compilation
MAD ok du
.1 + .0016n = minutes/compilation
FAP
.0004n = minutes/assembly
where n is the number of cards. When several compilations

in the same language are being done in one job, add the
following amounts to the calculations. For every additional

FORTRAN .07 minutes
MAD .1 minutes
FAP .04 minutes

Loading time for binary decks is 6000 cards/minute.


