rime I€-

Much of the delay used bY 1 @ ongthe

quired 10 search the pertinent pa erec " Even

2.700,000 which 002y axe ¢ roblem
if this is well doné, tht ; rific litera
of searchlngfmfe‘g“l’“l try,
rure. To be entitled t0 @ patent 10 tmshc untry

one must be the first m\{en p .-—a.n e e
the foreign patents and ,
not readily searched,
always in jeopardy. :
It is estimated that 69% of the tim€
examiners is now spen;hm t
This involves a thorough €O
. . g
detailed claims with all prior disclosures:
determine whether the wording © t
i ent 1nv
expressed fails to represt .
has gone before: In addition 10 the searching by
i i m O
examiners, the public searc : :
Office is also filled everyday, and often 1ntc(; taht :
late evening with hundreds of gearchers ?nf e
torneys poring through the files on pehalf of 1

dustry and the inventor.

The U. S. patent sytem is at the crossroads

today. While the examiners are as dedicat
and competent as their predecessors, they face
a task infinitely more complex than that pf an
earlier day. The unprecedented pace of science
and industry at home and abroad 18 producmg
new facts, scientific reports and patent informa-
tion at a rate beyond the capacity of procedures
which served our fathers well.

These facts ar€ obvious to the patent expert
but are not appreciated by the general public, for
whose welfare the system Wwas established.
Equally, the serious situation now facing theU. S.
patent Office today is not being generally rec-
ognized although some of the difficulties had been
pointed out to the Appropriations Subcommittees
of both House and Senate during the hearings
held in connection with the 1955 Patent Office
appropriation hearings. The Office has a force
of approximately 700 examiners struggling 1O
keep abreast of these mountains of knowledge.
Despite their efforts, there are more than 200, -
000 applications awaiting action, and the present
staff is unable to keep the size of this backlog
from increasing.

The Examination Process

In order to illustrate some of the spe-
cific problems involved, we will follow
the prosecution of a simple patent appli-
cation before an examiner in the Patent
Office in some detail.

 

An [llustrative Application

Exhibit 1 shows the drawings of an ap-

plication which has recently matured intg
g, Patent (2).

This application was for “an ornamental
pead necklace," In thl.S application the
individual peads Were disclosed as being
connected 1O one another Dy separable
fasteners the two parts of which were each
integral with each one of the beads.
Hence the Lecklace could be taken apart
at any joint, and beads added or taken
out, SO that the length of the necklace
could be changed, Of beads of different
types, colors, €tC., could be alternatively
utilized 10 making up the necklace. '

The Speciﬁcaﬁon

As required by the Patent Office Rules
of Practice, the application contained a
complete description of the alleged inven-
tions, known as the speciﬁcation which re-

_-———-'-'—-—__—
ferred to the drawing as 1t described the

several different embodiments of the pat-
entee’s idea. The specification of this
application is reproduced here.

1 This jnvention relates to ornamental beads and
similar bodies and its objectisto provide an im-
roved means of connecting OT linking such
bodies together, for example, 1O make up a string
of beads.
o According tO this invention, at least on€ of a
pair of bodies which are 10 be joined together is
formed of resilient material; one of the pair i8
provided with a neck carrying a head and the
other is formed with a socket which is entered
through a mouth of smaller cross-section than
the socket interior, the head on one body and the
mouth on the other being 8O shaped and dimen
sioned in relationtoone another thatthe head will
not ordinarily pass through the mouth but, dué
to the resilience of said resilient material, caf
be forced through with a snap action when it 18
desired to join tWO bodies together.
3 The invention i8 particularly applicable tothe
making up of a string of beads. Each pead méy,
be provided with a head at on® end and a 80K
at the other so that a string can be made UP by
a number of such beads. :
1+ Preferably each of the bodies to beé joined is
oulded from synthetic plasti material such
polyethylene and may have the neck and
formed integrally with the main part of the body’

ORNAMENTAL BEADED NECKLACE

 

Exhibit 1