Morse ur 807

J
V

Vad of; Soman Bo fel g NATS Towel en O/R

The Advisory Panel on Operations Research had its
secohd meeting at Aix-en-Provence on September 4, 1960, the day
before the International Conference on Operations Research, thus
taking advantage of the presence of several members at this conference
Present were all six members of the Panel, also Dr, Nierenberg
and Mr. Schradey of the Science Advisors' staff and Prof. B.0.Koopman,
Liaison representative,

Dr. Nierenberg officially reported the approval, by the
Science Council, of four recommendations made previously by the
Panel. A copy of these four recommendations is appended.

Members of the panel reported on the progress made in
implementing these recommendations

1. (Short Courses)

Prof. G8rtler reported the successful conclusion of an
eight-day course, given by Messrs, Galliher and Dobie from U,S.,
Salzmann from France and Vajda from U.K., given to a group of
persons, primarily from German universities but also from German
industry and the Ministry of Defense, at the University of Freiburg,
Prof. Morse reported that informal requests for short courses to
be given next summer have already been received from Italy, and
from Germany, (this secohd course with more emphasis on military
and industry) and that other requests may come in later,

2, (Year's Assignment of Expert to University plus Governmental
0/R Group).

Dr. Morse reported that formal requests from two countries
had already been received, one jointly from the University of
Oslo and the Norwegian Defense Research Establishment and the other
jointly from the University of Rome and the Italian military O/R
activities. In both cases, the uniersity involved has offered to
pay a part of the visitor's expenses, Morse reported that three


- 2 -

possible and approprisierecruiis had been located for these

two openings, one from a U.S, university, two from U,S. military

0/R groups, Negotiations would be carried on during the International
Gonference § since the possible recruits and the Italian and
Norwegian representatives will be in atlendance 3 final decisions
should be reached soon, It was reported that two to four more such
requests may be expected in the near future. The desimbility of

recruiting experts from U.K. and France as well as from U.S,

was agreed upon, The Panel noves that such expansion of this part

of the program will require financial subvention by NATO,

3, (Fellowships for Study and Training in O/R).
Dr. Morse reported that at least four universities
(University of Birminghem end London School of Economics in U.K.,
M.,I.T., and Case Institute in U.S.) are now able to take young men
from countries which do not now provide O/R education and give
them bothe lecture courses in appropriate subjects and practical
training with a working O/R team, and that the number of such univer-
sities will increase in the next several years, The mechanism of
choosing the man snd the school appropriate for him and of financing
his fellowship was discussed, The Panel believes the country of
the man's origin is best able to choose the man for the fellowship
but that the Panel could materially contribute by arranging the
assignment of fellows to schools and by assisting in planning
their curricula and work assignments. The Panel considers that
the NATO Fellowships are eminently suitable for supporting these
men.

It was pointed out however that what some of these young men
needed was not further university training but mn "interneship" in
anactual working O/R group for a year. Morse reported that a few
working groups in U.S., U.K. and France, have agreed to take on a
few such internes each, but did not feel that they could also pay
these internes a salary. Consequently, the NATO Science Council will


pre

a

have t0 arrange to finance such interneships, if they are to be
implemented, Of course, SADIC and other NATO 0/R grupps can take
on some such internes{ those interested primarily in military O/R)

" but they cannot efficiently care for all the potential supply.

4, (Exchange of Personnel between Well-established and Nevlymformed
O/R groups).

Dr, Morse reported that several military and industrial
O/R groups in U.8., U.K. end France have indicated their willingness
to help implement this fourth recommendation of the Panel and that
some of the liaison was already going on. At present, however, no
ene organization has knowledge of most of the activity in this area,
so a great deal of duplication and lost effort has result@d, The
Panel believes that the liaison between groups; at the working level,
is of great importance for the development of 0/Rs It suggests that th
steps be taken Sorthat the 0ffice’of the Science Advisor to NATO be
informed of such liaison activity between NATO O/R groups at all
levels, not for control purposes but for information so that groups
undertaking such liaison can find out what has gone on in this
area and can adjust their efforts accordingly.

The Panel whishes to re-emphasize its belief in the desirabi
lity of these four approved areas of activity, to indicate its inten-
tion to help further their development and to request the backing
of the Science Committee in the methods of implementation suggested

dn this report, It is also in agreement that the recent formation

of national 0/R Societies in many NATO countries is a sign of the
healthy growth of the subject and that the developement of the Ine
ternational Federation of 0/R societies (IFORS) which organized the
Conference at Aix, could usefully assist the Panel in its task.


