e 3 :v,——,.n"_vu-n Y - ’mw” N - T ety - VL. WEN TR - -~
3 X

 

w \‘ \é J" &_&vg‘ o e i e

31 August 1956

Dr. Edwin Eopley

International Business Maschines Corporation
590 Madison Avenue

New York 22, New York

Dear fd:

During the 70L course here at M.I.T., 1 discussed with Dr. Hunter and
yourself the possibility of a fellowship and computer time being available
to Mr. Pleter Wiersema, graduate etudent at the University of Utrecht in
the Netherlands. I spent the academic year 1954<55 at Utrecht at the
invidetion of Professor J. The G, Overbesk, setting up a program of digital
computer applications in the field of Colloid Science. During this year,
Wiersems was my assistant, end after my departure, he has carried on the
research as part of his FPhoD. program. He is one of the first Dutech
scientists not himself on the stalf of a computer center to learn coding
and to apply the compuier to his field, the computer used being the ARRA
of the Mathematical Center in Amsterdam. It would be to Wiersema's advantage
to spend a year here at M.I.7. getiing acquainted with more advanced computers,
specifically with the 70L. In turn, I.B.M. would benefit from the training
a Buropean scientist could get here in applying a 704 to his problem.
Haturally, this communication is a preliminayy oneg I would have to check
with Professor (verbeek as to whether he would approve of having Wiersema
do part of his Ph.D. work at M.I.T. I imow that in the past he has been
happy to make such arrvangersnis. As & member of {he Electrical Ingineering
Faculiy, I would be very agreeable Lo supervise the work done here. In
oxder to spare him possible dissppointment, though, I will not apprvach
Wergsema until I hear from you regarding the feasibility of a fellowship.

Srieily, the prcblems involved concern ths sclution of a considerabls
number of simultaneous differential equations, some non-linear, by relaxation
methods. The physical system congists of a highly charged collcoid particle
surrounded by an electrolytic solution, the whole being subjected %o an
external elegiric field. When the veloeity of a colloid partiecle in such an
enviroment is measured, the stability of the colddal system can in principle
be predicted, but the caleulastion invelvad is too complex to be perfoemsd
without electronic computers. The first phsse of the program, namely the
caleulation of the potential and chargey distribution around the partisle