April 13, 1959

Mz. C. E. Berkeley

Computers and Automation Magazine
815 Washington Street

Newtonville 60, Massachusetts

Dear Ed:

I am giving you the following exclusive release, if you desire to use it, in
connection with the Summer Conference on Frontier Research in Digital
Computers to be held here in August:

of Sciences Computation Center at Leningrad, agd Dr. A. P. Ershov of Moscow
State University and the Academy of Sciences Cor ation Center at Moscow
have been in¥itéd to give a series of ten lectures at the Summer Conference on
Frontier Research in Digital Computers at the Research Computation Center,
University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, from August 17 through 28.

Professor L. V. Kantorovich of the ini, sll Leningrad and\the Academy

Professor Kantorovich has been invited to discuss the work on linear
programming and other areas of applications of functional analysis that have
been developed by hime and his co-workers in the Soviet Union. Dr. Ershov
has been invited to duscuss the theoretical and programming work done on the
BESM and Strela computers at Moscow State Universily and the Moscow Computa-
tion C:onter in the development of "programming programs’ (compilers) for
those two computers.

The two series of lectures are planned as part of the continuing series of
exchanges of persons between the Soviet Union and the United States. The visit
of the two scientists, as presently planned, will include, in addition to the
Chapel Hill lectures, discussions with Professor Alan J. Perlis and members
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology Computation Laboratory staff, and
possible attendance at the A. C. M. meeting in September at M. I. T., along
with discussions with members of the staff of the M. I. T. Computation Laboratory.

It is expected that a U. 5. delegation of comparable stature will make a
return visit to the Soviet Union to give lectures in one or more computation centers
there, according to the general agreement under the rules of the exchanges.

The first such exchange was made last year when a group of four Soviet
Computer personnel visited the U. S. A. at the invitation of John W. Carr, III,
now Director of the Research Computation Center at the University of North
Carolina, and five United States citizens, including Professors Perlis and Carr,


Mr. C. E. Berkeley
Page Two April 13, 1959

visited comparable Soviet installations in Moscow, Kiev, and Leningrad.

(You may use this in any reasonable fashion, of course, Ed, along with the
material you already have.)

Sincerely yours,

John W. Carr, III, Director
Research Computation Center

cc: Professor A. J. Perlis, Carnegie
Professor Philip Morse, M.I.T.
Mr. J. H. Wegstein
National Bureau of Standards


