104 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—Francl and Kingery

g 004
o
&
A

003
0
L
“w

8002
0

 

0.0l
0 200 400 600 800

TEMPERATURE (°C.)

Fig. 9. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; samples with cylindrical pores
of diameter 0.082 cm. with 11.97%-porosity cylinders parallel to
heat flow; solid is shown.

k (col. sec”' ¢! cni® cm)

 

0 200 400 600 800
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 10. Thermal conductivity of AlLO; samples with cylindrical
pores of same diameter, 0.082 cm.; representative curves for
indicated porosity, from 7.54 to 22.4%, and solid.

“The relative conductivity is useful since it can be generalized
to apply to any solid material. Here too, the experimental
points fall between the values given by Loeb (Part VIII) and
by Russell,! but are considerably higher than those calculated
by Eucken.?

The experimental results for isometric pores indicate that
both the relationships of Russell and Loeb represent the
experimental data within possible error, but that the relation-
ship of Eucken gives results which are low. In general, the
Loeb equation seems to be preferable to that of Russell.

(2) Nonisometric Pores

Typical experimental data for the cylindrical pores are shown
in Fig. 9. The mean deviation of experimental points from
each curve 1s about 2 or 39,. A series of curves for different
porosities 1s shown in Fig. 10, for the temperature range room
temperature to 900°C. Data for one series of samples (0.146-
cm. pore diameter) are replotted in Figs. 11 to 13 to illustrate
the effect of porosity. For all samples the experimental data
fall between the Loeb and Russell curves and substantially
above the Eucken relationship, for pores oriented parallel to
heat flow. In addition to this orientation the sample can be
turned so that the cylindrical pore axes are perpendicular to
heat flow. In this case the Eucken® and Russell' equations
do not apply, but the Loeb equation (Part VIII) is in excel-
lent agreement with the experiment. Samples with 0.082-cm.
pore diameters gave the same results as the larger pore size at
temperatures up to about 500°C.

These results are of interest in that they illustrate strikingly
the strong dependence of thermal conductivity on pore

Vol. 37, No. 2

0.0520

"A" CHANNELS Il HEAT FLOW
“g8" CHANNELS L HEAT FLOW

MEASURED "A"

 

E

Q
'8 . = N
; b
~ . RUSSELL N

e 00360

o

sec.

k(cal.

0.0280

 

0 10 20 ' 30
PORCSITY (%)

Fig. 11. Thermal conductivity of Al.O; with cylindrical pores of diameter
0.146 cm. at 200°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data; dashed lines,
calculated from theories as indicated.

orientation. The decrease in thermal conductivity is about
doubled by orienting the pores perpendicular to the heat flow.
Finck® dealt with a similar case in an investigation of fibrous
materials in a continuous air phase system.

The close agreement of the experimental data with the
values calculated from Loeb in both orientations is con-
vincing evidence of the general applicability of these equa-
tions.

The effect of porosity in the two orientations can be corre-
lated in the same relationship by calculating the maximum
cross-sectional pore fraction in a repeating unit through the
structure. This is the ratio of the pore area to the total area
in a sample cross section containing the maximum void area.
In Fig. 14, the relative thermal conductivity is plotted against
cross-sectional pore fraction for both sizes of pores at 400°
and at 800°C. At 400°C. the two pore sizes give equivalent
results. At the higher temperature the larger pores have an
increased radiation effect, as indicated by the Loeb equation.

(3) Effects of Emissivity

To define the effects of emissivity more closely, samples
were prepared from nickel, which has a low emissivity, and
from graphite, which has a high emissivity. Alumina is

m.termc(hate. Experimental results for nickel are shown in
Fig. 15. Experimental results for graphite are shown in

Fig. 16.

At the higher temperatures, emissivity has a considerable
ef.fect on conductivity of porous materials, as indicated in
Figs. 17 to 19. InFig. 17, the relative thermal conductivities
are compared with the relation predicted by Loeb (Part VIII).
The .C(mductivity at higher temperatures increases as 1S
predicted. When the cross-sectional pore fraction is below
about 20%, the effect is not important; but at higher porosi-
ties, the difference becomes significant. The variation is
clearly shown in Fig. 18 for both pore size and emissivity at a

- e

 

 

FYﬂDI112Lr}, "lf)53‘¥ (11)21rt; I I)

"A" CHANNELS || HEAT FLOW
"8" CHANNELS 1 HEAT FLOW

MEASURED "8"

0.010
0 10 20 30

POROSITY (%)

Fig. 12. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; with cylindrical pores of diameter
0.146 ¢cm. at 500°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data; dashed
lines, calculated from theories as indicated.

cross-sectional pore fraction equal to 0.50. At elevated
temperatures the effect of emissivity becomes more important,
as shown in Fig. 19. It was found that the relative conduc-
tivity increases linearly with emissivity for a given pore cross
section, as expected. The effect of emissivity becomes im-
portant only at elevated temperatures. For a cross-sectional
pore fraction of 0.5, the effect of radiant transfer 1s only about
3% at 500°C. but increases to more than 209 at 800°C. At
higher temperatures, the authors can predict with confidence
that emissivity will become even more important.

V. Applicability of Theoretical Relations

The experimental results obtained here for various sizes,
shapes, and orientation of pores for different materials.of
known solid thermal conductivity and total normal emissivity
agr.eed with the theoretical relations derived previously iv this
Series by Loeb (Part VIII). The relationships of Russell!
gave results almost as good for isometric pores, but they are
not applicable to anisometric pores. BExperimentally, the

oeb relationships were found to hold up to cross-sectional
Pore ratios of (.5, the maximum tested. It is desirable to

‘nsider the application of these relationships to practical
problems.
By means of the equations given by Loeb (Part VI.II)» the
rmal conductivity of samples with a given porosity aqd
POre orientation can be predicted with confidence if the solid
icso nduc.ti"it.\’ and emissivity are known, and if'the solid pl'u;se
‘ontinuous.  Continuity of the solid phase is necessary or
eSe.eguatiOnS to apply, and may in general be expected for
POTOsities up to at least 509%. Insome extraordinary systems
Perhaps for foam glass) it may apply to very high porosities.
\ Some cases (as for powder compacts), it will not .al?]).l.\z Cl"eg
e\'eg“;:- porosities. For materials with low ellleiIS':)lgéb' “t‘]‘]e
relat; 'm'atCrlals. with high emissivities up to o &
on takes the simple form

kp - k,(l > Pc)

- T : e

105

:A: CHANNELS Il HEAT FLOW
B" CHANNELS L HEAT FLOW

MEASURED "A“

LOEB

em:=2 °¢c”! em)

sec.

k(cal.

MEASURED "8"

 

0 10 20 30
POROSITY (%)

Fig. 13. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; with cylindrical pores of diameter
0.146 c¢m. at 800°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data; dashed
lines, calculated from theories as indicated.

K
RELATIVE CONDUCTIVITY —Rf-

           

0 I 2 3 SANS

0 A 2 3 & 5 k : ‘
CROSS -SECTIONAL PORE FRACTION

Fig. 14. Relative conductivity of cylindrical pores at 400° and 01.800°C.
Solid circles, pore diameter 0.146 cm.; open circles, pore diameter,
0.082 cm.

For materials with isometric pores, the .cross-sectional pore
fraction is equal to the voliume.pore fraction gnd the.conduc-
tivity 18 equal in all dlrectxons: For amsome.tnc. pore§
arranged, the cross-sectional pore fraction 1n .an_\g
random plane will be eqpal to the volume pore fra(;ltlox;].
For anisometric pores whx.ch are not randomly arrange , t e'
cross-sectional pore fractlon.and the thermal conductivity
will vary in different directions. By extrt.lsmn, ord§1mllljr

roceSSC-S. brick could be 111ar}llfactured ha:;mg a pr'e 1claF e
‘ation of thermal conductivity along d}ﬂererlt axes. For
et isometric sample the cross-sectional pore fraction
h e amt easily determined by preparing polished sections
canle mo; ‘ tyﬂ(;w and microscopically determining the pore
norbAR Ief‘1 desired, the experimental curve given in Fig. 8
d instead of the relationship above.

randomly

fraction.’
can be usé