Academician S, A, Lebedev

Page Two April 13, 1959

could lecture in Russian about the Computational System for the Univac 1105
there, and who would be interested in making such a return trip. I have also
talked to Dr. Nicholas Metropolis of the University of Chicago, who has
evidenced interest in such a visit or series of lectures in the U. 8. S, R., to
Dr. Householder, of course, to Dr. Jack Moshman, a statistician and
Secretary of the Association for Computing Machinery, and others. I am sure
that if you have the names of these or other U, S. computer scientists that

you would like to invite in return, a suitable group could be arranged to visit
you.

I am very pleased that my leadership of cur Computation Center here now
allows me to plan such exchanges further, and hope that the trips of last year
can be duplicated, If you and, of course, Academician Dorodnitsin, would
like to join the party, we would of course be exceedingly pleased to have you
suggest that, and arrange to have the size of the groups extended. However,
I must 2gain warn you that there will be little emphasis on actual machine
hardware at the Chapel Hill meeting, with somewhat more at the Association
for Computing Machinery meeting in Cambridge.

Ve would again plan to arrange meetings along the route from New York to
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill to Cambridge, and Cambridgs to New York for the
visitors to meet and talk to other American computer scientists, but I think
they would probably meet almost everyone of interest either at Chapel Hill
or Cambridge.

Professor Perlis is joining me in this invitation, and hopes to have further
discussions with Zrshov on their mutual interests. My wife, of course, would
be pleased to mest you if you could come, since she has heard many stories
of your hospitality at yvour dacha.

The main purpose of this letter, of course, is to begin correspondence about
a second such exchange of lecturers. 1 hope that you and Academician
Dorodnitsin, to whom I am writing a similar lefter, as well as Professor
Kantorovich and Dr. Ershov, will feel that this is a good idea., I myself value
highly the trip that I made to the Soviet Union last fall, as do all of my friends
who went with me. The details of the final exchange, of course, can be
negotiated in other letiers between now and the date of the conference, but I
would appreciate an answer as early as pogsible since I have plans as to the
lecture schedules, ete., that must be made before June 15. I hope you, of
will apswer in Russian, which I wish I could write better!

Sincerely yours,
. Connr lef

John W, Carr, III, Director
Research Computation Center

   

cc: Professor A. J. Perlis
Dr. W. M. Whyburn, Vice President
University of North Carolina
Professor Philip Morse, M.I1.T. Computer
Laboratory, Cambridge, Massachusetts