M.I.T. Computation Center Page 3 of 10

Title of Position: JIBM CARD PUNCH OPERATOR

ST | CeEREUSMETIUEN ST

DUTIES

1. Card Punching: transcribes numeric or alphanumeric data onto punched cards by

operating the Type Oll, 024, or 026 Card Punch Machines, By means of the canxd
punch machine, the original data is converted from the source document into holes
in an IBM card. This is a manuel operation in which the operator reads the
manuscript and, by striking appropriate keys, converts the information into punched
holes in the card. This operation is somewhat more automatic than that accomplished
by a typist employing the touch system since the machine feeds, positions, and
ejects the cards automatically. The operator merely concentrates on striking the
corregt key at the right time. :

Card Verifying: to insure the accuracy of the key punching, a separate machine is
available to check the accuracy of the work. This machine is called a Verifier.
The operation of this machine is very similar to the key punch (>hysical outward
appearances are almost identical) and a key punch operator is expected to operate
the Verifier. A Type 056 Verifier is used in this office to check the accuracy of
the original key punching. Usually,a second operator verifies the key punching by
depressing the keys of the Verifier while reading from the original source data.
This is basically the same type of operation as typing or operating the card punch,

Performance: & successful key punch operator is one who can achieve high speeds

of operation and at the same time maintain a reasonable degree of accuracy. High
accuracy naturally will minimize the amount of error-correction effort which must be
expendod, As a matter of fact, in certain operations the need for verifying is
eliminated whemavisual check of the listed results is made., This implies that
certain key punch operators soon learn to list cards on the IEBM Tabulator -- merely

‘a push-button operation requiring no knowlwdge of the Tabulator, wiring, operstion,

etc. These results are listed and visually inspected for accuracy. (Note: not

all jobs can be handled in this manner.) The important point here is that the key
punch operator has a definite responsibility for the accuracy of her work. Obviously
all succedding machine operations will be of no value if the input key punched
material is in error! Thus a high degree of accuracy is essential in the card
preparation stages of any EDFM operation.

QUALIFICATIONS

1.

Educational Background: high school education or equivalent is a prerequisite.

Natural Ability and Aptitude: a high degree of manual dexterity is desirable in
this job and, of course, normal or corrected vision of 20-20 is regquired.

Previous Experience: Lknowledge of typing is helpful but not an essentisl pre-
regquizgite for this position.

Technical Skillls: an exporienced card punch operator may gualify for advanced
salary based on proven previous performance -- a proficient card punch operator
will average 10,000 key strokes per hour.

Compatibility: because the work is done on an individual basis, compatibiilityis
not of prime importance. On the other hand, there is definite need to be able to
receive work, complete the assignment, and release the product in a greceful and
friendly manner. Good teamwork is essential.

Physical Appearance: A well-groomed appesrance is desirable.