5.2

5.3

In passing, it may be well to mention thet the entire DA was dismantled
and largely removed from the premises during a two-week period covering October
4 - 16 inclusive. A later section of this report contains a detailed statement
regarding the cost of the entire dismantling and removal operation.

Purdue University intends to utilise their portion of the RDA for educational
treining and research, and as such, they hope to have their machine installed
and in operation &t the beginning of the spring semester. In this connection,
it is well to emphasize that zlthough the physical machine components have been
delivered to Purdue, it is still necessary to provide them with adequate circuit,
machine component, etc. wiring diagrams which will enable thes to reassemble the
machine properly. This means that wiring diagrams, etc. have yet to be photo-
stated and relessed to them for their use.

In addition to the RDA facilities, Purdue is procuring & fairly large
installation of electronic ananlogue equipment. In fact, $30,000 worth of Good-
year equipment has been ordered. The Purdue Statistical Division (which operates
& moderate-size punched-card installation) has recently received an intermediate
size digital computer from the Comnsolidated !nginooring'COlpany. Professor
Geldmacher made the foliowing statement about their planms: « « . Purdue does
not intend to rc=ain behind in the rapidlp-expanding field of analog and digital

computation. . . It is evident that the University has a rdther ambitious long-
range plan. .

OTHER INSTITUTIONAL NEGOTIATIONS

In addition to the majér contribution to Purdue University, The University
of Connecticut, The Franklin Institute (Philadelphia), The Museum of Science
(Boston), The Graphic Arts Research Foundation (Cambridge) received various
components from the DA which will be used primarily for educational training,
teaching, and research. Since several of these groups are museums, certain
choice portions of the Anslyzer were released to them in order that they might
serve as characteristic museum pieces illustrating the state of art prevalent
on the RDA.

In addition to the sbove-mentioned educational institutions, & considerable
amount of machine components, notably vacuum tubes, resistors, relays, etc. were
donated to Belmoant High Scheol. This equipment is to be used as part of the
Vocational Training Program in radio and electronics which is being presented
at the high school level. This contribution should achieve a very useful educa-
tional purpose.

M.I.T. RESEARCH PROJECTS

It is also evident from Table I that a number of M.I.T. projects have
received components from the RDA. In certain cases, e.g., Dynamic Analysis
Control Laboratory (DACL), Flight Control Laboratory (FCL), Servomechanisms
Laboratory (REAC), Acoustics Laboratory, etc., the components will be incor-
porated into other computing machines. In other cases, the equipment will be
used for graduate thesis research. This is largely true for all the equipment
released to various members of the Electrical and Aeronauticil Engineering
Projects.