HITCC-6 H.l.T. Computation Center
Hinutes of Mawvch 13, 1956 Meeting

 

Persons Preseat: D, N. Arden G. T. Huater P. H, Morse
/@ F. B, Hildebrand B, Rankin F. M. Verzuh

A brief discussion was held regarding the termination plans of the
Whizrlwind Computer. _ The need for informing current users of Whirlwind of
the exact date at which the facility will no longer be available to them
was emphasized. Verzuh discussed the request made by Douglas Ross, Servo-
mechanisms Laboratory, regarding the need for the Whirlwind Computer with
particular emphasis on the input-output equipment, such as the intervention
register, direct flexowriter keyboard comnection, MI instruction, etc.

At tThe me®ting on Monday, Maxrch 12, Ross indicated that two contracts with
the Air Force (VADC) amounting to.some $500,000 during the nexzt fiscal period
ave entirely dependent on the availability of the Whirlwind Computer. As

a matter of fact, Ross indicated that if the Digital Computer Laboratory were
to release Whirlwind prior to July, 1957, he would be interested in making
some avrangement with Lincoln to continue its operation for the M.I.T. family.
It was agreed that Whirlwind would be available through June, 1957 on a
tapering-off basis. =

Verzuh suggeéted that the exact date for terminating operations at
Whirlwind, its utdlization by M.I.T. after the 704 arrives, its final
disposition, etc., be discussed at the next meeting of the Machine Computation
Commitiee which will be held later this month. In the meantime, Verzuh would
alert Dr. Forrester regavrding this matter in order that more definitive
answers regarding Whirlwind may be soon forthcoming.,

Professor Hildebrand inquired regarding procedures for applicants from
the Math. Department for the IBM Research Assistantships, He presented a
folder Zfrom Mr. Paul Abrahams and stated that the Mathematics Department
congidered Abrahams to be an outstanding applicant. It was suggested. .that
Hr. Hershenov and H. J. Weinitschke, currently assistants on Project 6915,
should apply for the IE Assistantships. Since applications are due on

... JHarch 15, actual decisions regarding appointments will not be made until
later this month.

 

 

4 !

Verzuh discussed the status of the floor plaens of the M.I.T. Computation
Center, etc., which were worked on on Wednesday, March 7 -~ Friday, March 9.
At that time, location of partitions, electrical outlets, blackboards, etc.
vere submitied to Skidmore, Owings, & Meriill. Mr. Carl Peterson will spend
Wednesday, March 14, in New York City to obtain answers to some eight critical
questions regerding the air conditioning equipment, floor substructure,
power supplies, etc, Dr. G. T. Hunter will alsgso be in New York at that time
to present IEM's point.of view on these plans.

Hunter reported that IEM has receivéd 150 applications for the 1l0-week
educational program which is. being held in New York City. Obviouslya number of
rejectionswill have to be made because of the limited possible attendance_.