et

COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes of the Fifth Meeting
March 3, 1955

Persons Present: S. D. Drell, F. B. Hildebrand,
J. A. Hrones, P. M. Morse,
B. Rankin, G. B. Thomas, Jr.

The Committee considered appointments for the
academic year 1955-1956. For the Math Department Burrows
terminated January 31 and Ralston is terminating at the end of
the spring term. McIlroy is continuing and Phipps probably will
terminate this spring, though a final decision will be made by
the Math Department later. The Department recommended as new
appointments H. J. Weinitschke, J. Hershenov and M. Rosen. The
Committee approved these recommendations and Professor omas
said he would make offers to these three persons. Morse reported
that only Tubls has definitely been reappointed, though there may
be one further continuation of the seven present assistants in Physics.
Glendenning and Weinberg, approved by the Committee at its last
meeting, have been offered assistantships. The Department recom-
mended, in addition, Mr. J. K. Kim. The Committee approved this
additional recommendation and Mr. Kim will be offered a position.

Hrones reported that Mr. Ling will be terminating this
spring. The Mechanical Engineering Department recommended a Mr. J. A.

Lehtlimen for appointment for next year. The Committee approved
this recommendation.

The Chemicsl Engineering Department reports that Mr. O'Donnell
will terminate about the first of April. It recommended that the
appointment of Mr. M. Troost be continued through the next academic
year. The Committee approved this. Morse rsported that Professor
Archer in the Civil Engineering Department reported that Mr. C. W.
Johnson willl terminate this June. The Civil Engineering Department
has no recommendation for future appointments at present, though
it may make a recommendation later this spring. Morse also re-
ported that Mr. K. Vozoff in Geophysics is also terminating this
spring. The Geology and CGsophysics Department recommends a Mr. K. F.

ess for an appointment for next year. The Committee approved
this recommendation.

Morse read a letter from the ONR which indicated that it
was willing for the Project to continue at its present rate of
activity for tne next academic year but that it felt that a com-
plete review of the work was necessary next fall. Morse pointed
out that this implied the possibility that the Project would be
terminated in July 1956 and that mppointments for the next academic


“ge
year should not carry any _implie
later,

 

tion of possible continuation

The next meeting of the Committee ig scheduled for
2:00 p.m., Thursday, April 7.

Phil M. Morse
Chal rman
PMM: JM


