Third Draft
Corbato Version

. Mr. M., Loven Bullock
B mm
'. ‘. 'T' .

| 'M um:

m Center staff in donloptu a tt-o-muu system for the IBM 7090
 computer has come to the comclusion that certain machine modifications are
essential for the success of the project. The requirements for time-sharing
system will first be discussed in a general way and then a specific proposal
of modifications will be made. Although the proposal is considered to be
& fully satisfactory one and reasonable to implement and use, it should not
be considered the unique way to satisfy the desired requirements. Rather the
 proposal should be considered as specimen which exhibits the various roquiu—
. mts and attendant alﬂ.culuu which mt be solved.

it is aapoctod that all programs oX tmo-mred users of the computer
will be operated under the direction of a supervisory program. The latter
progran will be responsible for periodically starting and stopping each
user program in a sequential fashion. Due to core memory space limitations,
user programs will ususlly have to occupy different memory locations each
time they are operated. User programs when operated must be unable to
transfer to or store words in other programs outside of their allotted
memory regiol.. However, the supervisory program, which is assumed to be
completely debugged, should be able to transfer to or reference any location
in mewory. It is assumed that all trap locations will be in the supervisory
program, Finally, to prevent & user program from giving input-output
commands which disturb other programs it appears convenient that input-
output commands only be initiated in the supervisory program; thus the user
program enters supervisory program subroutines to accomplish input-output.

The above requirements can be satisfied by T“he following propesed
modifications:

1, There should be a memory protection wmode added, When out of the
memory protection mode (normally set by the reset button), the 7080 behaves
in the usual manuer and relocation and boundary registers {(Jescrised below)
are ignored. Vhen in the memory protection mode, memory protection traps
may occur and the relocation register is operative. The mode is entered
by & special instruction

TRP X (transfer and enter protect mode)
which causes transfer of control to X end entry into the memory protection

mode, The mode is left whenever any trap occurs, (it would be convenient
for using system subroutines, but not essential, if a TSX~like instruction