]
- i

   

 
 

 
 

   
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
   
      

  
   

“

~ rec

T

sted. However, we must not be too
to put all the blame on communism’s
step. For example, in Latin America,
is a deep, underlying resentment of Ameri~
can policy which goes back for many years.
True, American policies toward Latin Amer-

e definitely Communist inspired and di-

door-

 

brx “» -

o
=
"

-

- CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SEN.

realize that some of these demonstrations

sistance to other nations of the world. Un-

der provisions of this act, we assist under-
quick developed nations to improve their economic

status. We instruct them in public health

there and sanitation. We establish schools and

hospitals. We teach the peoples of these
less fortunate areas more modern methods of

farming, in order that they may produce

ica have drastically changed in the past 25 more food from their soil.

years, but many people in this dynamic area

Question. You said that this also provided

still view us with suspiclon and outright military assistance, Senator WiLEY?

dislike.

Question. What about other areas of- the
world, Senator? :

Answer. Recent events in the Middle East
and in Africa have shown that there is wide-
spread misunderstanding of American ob-
jectives. Almost all of the demonstrations
of anti-American sentiment have been di-
rected against our so-called imperialistic ob-
jectives. We know that nothing is further
from the truth. However, regrettably, the

Answer. Yes.
our

In some instances we assist
allies mk building wup their military
strength. With our help, more than 2!, mil-
lion foreign allied troops—at relatively inex-
pensive cost—are now in the front lines
against the threat of Communist world domi-
nation. If we stopped our aid program to
these nations, they couldn’t support even a
fraction of that armed manpower. Thus our
military assistance program enables our al-
lies to maintain their military strength with

Communist propagandists have convinced their own troops. This relieves us of the
people in these underdeveloped areas that necessity of having American troops in great

our objectives are to keep them in a state

of destitution and misery. These are the why the Senate restored the $160 million au-
‘ “We can thorization in military aid funds which the

lies which we must counteract.
counteract them in part by a program of

force located throughout the world. This is

House had deleted from the President’s re-

information and truth. However, the most quest. >

constructive and effective means of spread-
ing the truth to people in these areas is by
a dynamic program of action which will fur-
ther assist them to achieve their ultimate
goals of independence and self-determina-
tion. These countries have long been “have-
nots”’—we have been a nation of the “haves.”
Resentment and bitterness are only natural
human reactions to these conditions.

Question. Senator, there has been a con-
siderable amount of controversy on this bill.
Can you give us the reason for this?

Answer. I would be glad to. I believe it
i{s controversial only because it is widely mis-
understood. We frequently hear this bill re-.
ferred to as a giveaway of American taxpay-
ers’ dollars. This isn’t the case at all. The
mutual security program does not give any-

Question. What can the United States do thing away. This program is a sound invest-

to improve these relations, Senator WILEY?

ment in security for America and peace for

Answer. First, we must realize that in the the world. I quite frankly belleve that had

past 20 years our world has shrunk to a frac-

it not been for the existing mutual security

tion of its former size, figuratively speaking. program, we might have already had a great
We are only a few minutes away from any number of additional brushfire incidents, or

spot on our globe. Therefore, our entire

even possibly the dreadful prospect of world

concept of America as a place remote\from war III,

other nations must be changed.
Question. What else, Senator?

Question. Does the mutual security pro-
gram make cash grants to underdeveloped

Answer. Even more important, we have jations, Senator?

reached a point in civilization where the

so-called “have-nots” must not be permitted

to exist as such in this world. In this mod-
ern day and age there is no reason for con-
tinuing poverty and misery in any area, We
live in a world of plenty. We live in a world
of education and science. -It is imperative
that all peoples in all areas of the world be
enabled to take advantage of this new and
dynamic concept of living. This means that
we, who believe in true democracy and liberty,
must rededicate ourselves to these principles.
In doing this, we must develop a constructive
new policy which will give a helping hand
to these nations and peoples, in order that
they may achieve their proper place in the
family of free nations.

Question. What is being done to accom-
plish this objective, Senator?

Answer. One of the measures under dis-
cussion In Congress is directly aimed at im-

proving conditions in underdeveloped areas tions Committee of the Senate, the Forel
of the world. In so doing, we will strengthen Affairs Committee of the House, and the In

the security of America and the free world.
Question. What measure are you referring
to, Senator?

Answer. I refer to the Mutual Security Act am happy to report that almost all of the

which will soon be discussed in the Senate.
Question. You stated that the Senate
would soon be acting on this bill, Senator
WiLEY?
Answer. Yes. The House has already
passed its version of the mutual security bill,

Answer. Only in a few instances. In most
cases, the money appropriated for mutual se-
curity is spent in the United States. Latest
estimates indicate that more than 80 percent
of foreign-aid funds are spent in this country
purchasing goods and services for use over-
seas. This means that mutual security funds
give a boost to our own economy and create
jobs in virtually every aspect of the American
economy. According to estimates I have re-
ceived from the State Department, more than

500,000 persons in the United States are em--

ployed as a direct result of the mutual-secur-
ity program.

Question. Senator WiLey, during recent
months, there have been many accusations
of wasteful utilization of mutual security
funds. Has anything been done to correct
this?

Answer. By all means.

-

The Foreign R

ternational Cooperation Administration it-
self, all have conducted extensive investiga-
tions into each specific charge of waste.

charges were found to be completely false.
In the few isolated instances in which there
was substance to the charges, conditions were
corrected immediately. Naturally, we will
continually watch for needless expense in
‘this, and all other Government programs.

During the past week, the Senate Foreign The American taxpayers are carrying a tre-

Relations Committee, of which I am a mem-
ber, has been studying the House-passed
measure, and making some suggestions which
I believe strengthen the bill.

Question. Could you tell your listeners
briefly just what the Mutual Security Act is?

Answer. Well; this bill provides for a pro=-
gram of economic, technical and military as-

mendous burden of expense. It isour solemn
responsibility to ascertain that every tax dol-
lar is spent wisely on programs which will
be of the greatest possible benefit to the
Unlited States. '

Question. You feel that the mutual-secur=-
ity program accomplishes this objective,
Senator WILEY?

 

o
54

  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 

 

 
 

 

3 Ha T b
b o e e L
7 =g B S e e N A [ i -,. kS,
~ Answer. I frankly believe that almost ev

~dollar spent on mutual security has been
very wise investment in America’s security
and the safety of the free world. When na- =
tions in other parts of the world are strong  °
economically, physically, and militarily, the =
danger of Communist infiltration is greatly =
reduced. When we assist other natlons to = =
~ assume their rightful place in the family
_of independent nations, we are contributing
to the strength of the non-Communist world.
As/free and independent nations become
stronger, the United States becomes more
secure. - i T
Question. Russia has greatly
program of assistance to other
she, Senator WiLex? = S TS
- Answer. Yes, indeed; she has. Russia h
a rapidly growing program of aid to under-
developed areas. She has combined her pro-
gram with an aggressive trade expansion pro-
gram. Only recently, Allen Dulles, Director
of our Central Intelligence Agency stated

expanded her
natlons, hasxgg;‘a

oot

that the greatest threat in the history of the

.".\

United States is the economic offensive now
being waged by Russia. You may remem-
ber, Premier Khrushchev announced to an
American newspaper man recently that Rus-
sia declared war on the United States in the
field of world trade and economics. This
was no idle boast. We have already seen
some results of this new, aggressive, economic
policy in Russia. She is making commit-
‘ments for assistance to many countries in
strategic areas of the globe, and furthermore,
Russia is honoring these commitments. She
is continually searching for new areas in
which to begin her economic infiltration.
We have seen Russia’s economic offensive
functioning in Asia—in the Mideast and in
Africa. She is even now making overtures
for 4 technical assistance program to Latin
America. We cannot afford to allowRussia'
to get her foot in the door any farther than
she already has. ' 5
America has been challenged. In all
frankness, we cannot afford to ignore this
challenge. Our survival as a nation de-
pends on our awareness and recognition of
the dangers which confronts us. =
Question. When do you thing the mutual
security bill will be signed into law Senator?
Answer. As I mentioned before, the Senate
should act on the bill sometime late this
week. Then the differences between the
House and Senate versions will have to be
resolved in conference. Following this, it
will go to the White House for the President’s
signature. The bill we are now discussing is °
only the authorization bill. No funds are
appropriated under this measure. A sepa=
rate appropriation bill must be passed be-
fore the program will be in operation.
Question. Well, Senator WiLEY, I see that
our time is up. Have you any last minute -
message for your friends in the Chicago area?
Answer. Yes, I just want to say it has been
a pleasure being with you tonight on this
Congressional Review. I hope that some
e in the future I will have the opportu-
again to talk with you. Now, in con-
sion, I wish to thank Station WIND once
in for inviting me to participate in this
adcast. This is Senator ALEXANDER WILEY
Wisconsin bidding you all good night.

i\

e e b

 

UTILIZATION OF ELECTRONIC
BRAINS TO SPEED UNITED
STATES RESEARCH

Mr. WILEY. Mr. President, observers
have often stated that we are in the
midst of four great revolutions in this
20th century.

(a) The first is a social revolution
throughout the world. The “have-not”’
nations are seeking to raise their stand-
ards of living and to secure their place
in the sun.

) oy
y . rleE
> it = Ny w Ayt
” ¢ et o SR T e SR T L
- Yre ) XA ; - .
-y . 31 ) P 3

Las & f - S
VR Aoy

-~

Sy S AR o Ll AN g e

  
        

    
    
      
  
   

 

       

~

 

-

 

ﬁ‘.‘,:‘-
LAY

'L. T

o

L RALS S 5 W

s

5%
/i 4

b 4.,.: i

£, ke
flas

’

¢

»

i'-‘g(-A<'¢;;~.‘""“
A etse s e .M b

»
Vp ok g
\

s