Extension of NSF (2940 | ‘ 558 Pagess;

Enclosure B, Continued

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and baslc research in
all phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering, - X
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty :
nembers and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students =
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the 3
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logie, in tech=-
niques of machine computation, and in specific applications of
machine operation to. .experimental and theoretical problems, thus
appreciably broadening the range of apg}icability of computer
in the physical and social sciences and in engineering. 3

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work
will, in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numéri-

. eal analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the
other participants at the Center and wiil, in part, break ground
in new fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing -
which :i}l be needed in the application of digital computers to -

new tasks. . . | |

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is 2
‘already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various depart- |
ments of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of
the participating colleges wlll join it for a semester or a year,
on leave from their institution, to work full time at the Center.

. IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, bullding, maintenance and
operating staff of the Center. We belleve that a contribution of
about $120,000 a year will support the activitles of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the
research carried on at the Computation Center by students and
staff of MIT and the participating colleges. We 1llst later in
this proposal some of the specific regearch projects we are pree
pared to start on. Other projects will develop naturally from
these and from the problems encountered by the other workers at .
the Computation Center.

Part of these additional funds can be obtained from some
of the research projects which will use the facilities of the
Center. Although the use of the machine itself will not be
chargeable, most users will need advice from the Center staff as
to preparing their programs, will need help in detailed coding
and will prefer to have our stalf carry out many of the actual
runs on the computer. This will add to the duties of the staff,
and part of the additional cost will be charged to those projects
which can afford this extra service. Those students and faculty
members who cannot afford to pay for this help will be able €o
use the machine, but will be expected to do thelr oun coding,