6.
3. LIBRARY INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE REVISED SHARE ASSEMBLER USING A
CONDENSED LIBRARY TAPE

In the preceding section it was explained how condensed sym-—
bolic cards can be included in the decks presented to the revised
assembler. In this section we explain how subroutines are called
for from the condensed library tape. This is different from the
way they are called for in the present version of the assembler.

For each library subroutine the programmer wishes to incor-
porate in his program he must write at least two LIB instructions.
First he must list all the library subroutines he wants at the be-
ginning of his program, or at least at a point in his program be-
fore he wants any subroutines to appear. As in the present assembly
procedure a library instruction is a card with LIB in the operation
field and the name of the subroutine in the location field (columns
1l to 6). The first group of LIB instructions must mention the de-
sired subroutines in the order 1n which they appear on the con-
densed library tape and must be followed by an LIB card with blank
location field. When the assembler gets to this group of cards it
extracts the condensed subroutines from the condensed library tape,
expands them and writes them on a tape in expanded form, and makes
a table of contents of the subroutines mentioned, which it puts in
core storage. No instructions are added to the program being as-
sembled at this point. Each LIB instruction must be given again
at the point in the program where the subroutine is to appear, It
1s not required in the second calling that the subroutines be
given in any particular order, although if they are given in the
same order as before, assembly time will be reduced. (not usually
by very much). A subroutine may be asked for more than once in
the body of the program (for open subroutines) but must be men-—
tioned only once the first time,

Failure to observe these rules will lead to a stop in the
assembly.

In addition to the public condensed library tape it is pos-—-
sible to use any number of private condensed library tapes which
may be mounted as tapes 5 to 10. If a subroutine is to be ob-
tained from a private library tape, the number of the tape is
written in column 12 of the first LIB instruction mentioning the