SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL

VOLUME 12 NUMBER 1
230 PARK AVENUE -

MARCH 1958
NEW YORK 17, N. Y.

 

 

TRAINING FOR RESEARCH ON ORGANIZATIONS:
A REPORT ON THE SUMMER INSTITUTE, 1957

SINCE the objective of the summer research training in-
stitute on organization theory and research was training
in research skills, my report on it, like most reports on
educational activities, will be more specific in describing
what we did than in measuring what we accomplished.
The institute brought together for a period of six weeks
some eighteen social scientists who have been active in
the study of human behavior in organizations, and pro-
vided them an opportunity to explore together a wide
range of methods that have been employed, at one time
or another, in that study.

WHAT IS ORGANIZATION THEORY
AND RESEARCH?

The term “organization” is sometimes used extremely
broadly—to encompass the whole area of the behavior
of organisms, or even of complex systems that are not
organisms. The institute was given a much sharper focus
than this. In selecting participants and planning the
program, we defined the relevant area as the study of
the behavior of human beings living in a formally
organized setting—in business, government, or a univer-
sity. The institute was to be concerned with funda-
mental research, and the participants would be in-

* The author is Professor of Administration and Associate Dean in
the Graduate School of Industrial Administration, Carnegie Institute of
Technology. He served as director of the summer research training
institute on organization theory and research, held at the Graduate
School of Industrial Administration from June 17 to July 26, 1957,
under the sponsorship of the Council’s Committee on Research Train-
ing. Mr. Simon presented this report informally at the annual meeting
of the board of directors of the Council, September 1957.

/

by Herbert A. Simon *

terested in the relations between the behavior of humans
in an organizational setting and their behavior as de-
scribed in general sociological and psychological theory.

Even within these boundaries, organization theory is
an extremely broad topic, and human behavior in organ-
izations has been studied from the most diverse stand-
points. If the institute were not to be diffuse and dis-
organized, we needed an appropriate blend of parochial-
ism and eclecticism in the selection of topics. We secured
this blend by depending on local faculty members in the
Graduate School of Industrial Administration (primarily
James G. March, Allen Newell, and myself) for the
parochialism, and on visitors from other institutions
(including Robert F. Bales of the Department of Social
Relations at Harvard University, Robert L. Chapman
of the Systems Research Laboratory in the RAND Cor-
poration, and Donald C. Pelz of the Institute of Social
Research at the University of Michigan) for the broader
view,

The predominant emphasis in organizational research
during the past decade has been on (a) motivation and
affect—what induces people to work, and how they feel
about organizational life—and (b) relations in the pri-
mary group—face-to-face groups and first-line super-
visory relations. These emphases were “represented” by
Messrs. Bales and Pelz. In contrast, our work at Carnegie
Institute of Technology (and, to a considerable extent,
the work at RAND Corporation with which Chapman
and Newell have been associated) has emphasized Cog-
nitive aspects of human behavior and problems arising
out of the structure of large organizations. Thus, the
staff members reflected a considerable range of research

1