(Rough draft of =)

Minutes of M.I.T. Machine Computation Committee

March 19, 1957

Present: Prof. S.H. Caldwell Prof. C. Lin
Prof. S.H. Crandall Prof. J.F. Relintjes
Prof. D. Durand Prof. D.N. Arden
Dr. J.W. Forrester Dr. F.J. Corbat®
Prof. F.B. Hildebrand Dr. F.M. Verzuh

Pr. G.T. Hunter

Morse opened the meeting at 2:00 p.m. in Rm. 6-107. He then
proceeded to give a general outline of the applications and, in
particular, discussed the question of whether the appointments
should be for 12 or 9 months. The question of the 9 who re-
applied for appointments was considered. If they were to be re-
appointed, about 20,000 of the 30,000 available would be
immediately committed, in which case there would be 12 new appli-
cants for about 4 positions. Forrester then brought up the
possible basis of making a choice. In one case the choice could
be by straight merit or, in the other extreme, it could be quotas
by department,. Morse and Forrester agreed that they wanted flexible
quotas so that weak departments could be encouraged.

There was some discussion of the varying department standards
in terms of the stipend recommended, but there was general agree-
ment that the committee could only stick to the stipend recommended
by the departments. In particular this meant that this pointed up
the fact that the registration officer of each department had to be
consulted to verify all possible appointments. It was initially
agreed befewme that all the renewal applications would be accepted
this year,without forming a precedent, inasmuch as there had been
little opportunity to use the Computation Center facilities this
year, It was also agreed that all first-year men would be appointed
only for 9 months. The forms submitted by the applicants and the
letters of recommendation were then circulated among those present
and) studied.


Minutes of M.1.T7. M.C.C. --

There was considerable discussion of the merits of the
various new applicants. In particular, Forrester and Caldwell
voiced the opinion that machine computation experience should
almost disqualify an applicant since it was felt that a well-
trained person should obtain support elsewhere.

After taking a vote on the various candidates by committee
members present, it was finally decided that Jones, Sax, Dupree
and Mullin would be recommended. No alternate was suggested,
but possibly Carroll would be considered if it were appropriate.
The final solution of the recommendations was left to the
discretion of Morse.

As a final note, Forrester suggested that the application
forms that were used this year were too scanty and, in particular,
suggested more than just one letter of recommendation and preferably
information on grades and academic background be required. It was
suggested that in the future this information could be borrowed
from the various departments! graduate student files for the pur-
pose of this selectlon meeting.

The meeting closed at about 4:00 p.m.

71047

F.J. Corbatdo


