Travel Grants), Howard F. Cline, and John L. Gillin. The
11 recipients are:

Melville J. Herskovits, Professor of Anthropology,
Northwestern University

Oscar Lewis, Professor of Anthropology, University of
Illinois

James E. McKeown, Professor of Sociology, De Paul Uni-
versity, Chicago

Donald Robertson, Assistant Professor of Art History,
Tulane University

Irving Rouse, Professor of Anthropology, Yale Univer-
sity

Omer C. Stewart, Professor of Anthropology, University
of Colorado

William Duncan Strong, Professor of American Arche-
ology, Columbia University

Sol Tax, Professor of Anthropology, University of
Chicago

Arthur J. Vidich, Assistant Professor of Anthropology,
University of Connecticut

Charles Wagley, Professor of Anthropology, Columbia
University

Richard B. Woodbury, Associate Professor of Anthro-
pology, Columbia University

International Statistical Institute

Travel grants for the meeting of the Institute to be held
in Brussels on September 3-8, 1958, have been awarded by
a subcommittee consisting of Mortimer Spiegelman (chair-
man of the Committee on International Conference Travel
Grants), Gertrude M. Cox, and Ralph ]. Watkins. The 4
recipients of grants are:

Hendrik S. Houthakker, Professor of Economics, Stanford
University

Richard C. Kao, Research Associate, Engineering Re-
search Institute, University of Michigan

William G. Madow, Senior Research Mathematical
Statistician, Stanford Research Institute, and Consult-
ing Professor of Statistics, Stanford University

William F. Ogburn, Professor of Sociology, Florida State
University

SUMMER RESEARCH TRAINING INSTITUTES
ON ANALYSIS OF ELECTORAL BEHAVIOR
AND ON THE JUDICIAL PROCESS

Selection of applicants for admission to two research
training institutes to be conducted during the summer of
1958, under the auspices of the Committee on Research
Training, has been made by the following subcommittees:
for the Institute on Analysis of Electoral Behavior to be
held at the Survey Research Center, University of Michi-
gan, June 23 - August 15, Angus Campbell (chairman),
Samuel J. Eldersveld, and J. Austin Ranney; and for the

Institute on the Judicial Process to be held at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin, July 7 — August 22, William M. Beaney
(chairman), Carl A. Auerbach, and Robert J. Harris. The
following persons have been invited to participate in the
respective institutes:

Analysis of Electoral Behavior

Robert P. Boynton, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, State University of Iowa

David R. Derge, Assistant Professor of Government,
Indiana University

Herbert Garfinkel, Assistant Professor of Government,
Dartmouth College

Lester W. Milbrath, Instructor and Research Associate
in Political Science, Duke University

Herbert D. Rosenbaum, Instructor in Political Science,
Hofstra College

Lloyd 1. Rudolph, Instructor in Government, Harvard
University

John H. Schaar, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
University of California, Berkeley

Kenneth N. Vines, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
Tulane University

Judicial Process

10

Henry J]. Abraham, Associate Professor of Political
Science, University of Pennsylvania

Harry V. Ball, Assistant Professor of Sociology, Pomona
College

Burton R. Fisher, Professor of Sociology, University of
Wisconsin

Houston 1. Flournoy, Assistant Professor of Government,
Pomona College

Gilbert Geis, Assistant Professor of Sociology, Los Angeles
State College

Martin P. Golding, Instructor in Philosophy, Columbia
University

Milton Greenberg, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
Western Michigan University

Ned V. Joy, Associate Professor of Political Science, San
Diego State College

Samue.1 Krislov, Assistant Professor of Government, Uni-
versity of Oklahoma

Arnold Meadow, Associate Professor of Psychology, Uni-
versity of Buffalo

Ches.ter A. N‘ewland, Assistant Instructor in Political
Science, University of Kansas

Arthur R. Porter, Jr., Professor of Economics, Hanover
College, Indiana

John R. Schmidhauser, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, State University of Iowa

Marcus G. Singer, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin

Jerome H. Skolnick, Research Associate, Sociology and
Law, Yale Law School

S. Sidney Ulmer, Instructor in Political Science, Michigan
State University