2

In order to take account of the different electrical conductivities of the bones,
lungs, heart and other tissues of the thorax, the depth of the thin layer of copper
sulphate solution in the conductivity tank was adjusted by the insertion of
cut-out shapes to represent the cross-section appearance of these tissues. The
resulting conductivity of the different regions so formed was then proportional
to the depth of the electrolyte.

The vertebra and sternum were represented by Perspex material of thick‘
ness greater than the depth of the electrolyte, thus giving zero conductivity.
The lung sections were in glass and covered by the electrolyte so as to give a
conductivity about 25% of that in other parts of the cross-section. It is
possible to have an increased conductivity for the heart by using a greater
electrolyte depth in that area, and this was done in some experiments.

A pair of probe electrodes was placed in the tank in the heart area and a
potential difference applied, so that a current ﬁeld was set up in the electrolyte.
These electrodes constitute a dipole source which could be adjusted in strength,
position and orientation. In further experiments two such dipoles have been
used, and in others a ‘ distributed source’ was used consisting of pairs of metal
conductors around the boundary of the cross-section of the heart.

Potentials were measured with respect to a remote point by means of a
search probe which could be moved over the tank area. Polarization errors
were substantially eliminated by the use of (i) a 500 eye/sec. source, (ii)
platinized-platinum search and reference probes, and (iii) a very high input
impedance to the valve voltmeter used for potential measurements. The
potential ﬁeld was also measured in the ‘double-layer’ tank, which is the form
originally described by Boothroyd et al. (1949). This is equivalent to making
the measurements in an inﬁnite, i.e. unbounded, medium. The comparison of
these results with those obtained in the modiﬁed tank shows the effect of the
boundary on the potential distribution.

REFERENCES

Boothroyd, A. R., Cherry, E. 0. & Makar, R. (1949). J. Inst". elect. Ems, 96, pt. 1, 163.
Morton, D, J., Truex, R. C. it Kellner, C. E. (1941). Human Cross-section Anatomy, section 23.
Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins.