memorandum to

From Y,.li,llorse, Director ii. I. T. Computation Center.

subject: Replaceuent of 704 by a 7090.

Background = In June, 1957, somewhat less than three years
ago, 207, wes installed at the Computation Center by IB, under
a special agreement whereby IBH maintains the equipment, contrie-
butes toward amortizing the additions to the Compton Laboratory
which house the Center and supports a number of research assoe
clates who assist users of the machine, and BIT staffs and oper=
ates the Center for the use of MIT and other cooperating New
England colleges and universities. The primary purpose of the
arranzement is to enable students and faculty of these instit-

utions to learn how to use high-speed computing machines, so that
the next generation of scientists, engineers and industrial exec
utives will be familiar with machine capabilities == in other
words the primary purpose is to demonstrate that such machines
are as important a part of the educational equipment of a modern
college as are chemistry laboratories, for example, A secondary
purpose is to foster research in the use of computing machines,
particularly in those fields of applicetion which have not yet
been explored or exploited fully,

To This end, priority on 704 time has been accorded to
regular class use by courses in machine programning and applicae.
tions, to students using the machine in their thesis research
and to research projects investigating new techniques of machine
use, Particular attention has been given to m making it easy for
the out-of-town users: mail service, special scheduling during

[=e

visits and Sacha operation for those who cannot come to Cam-

ed

OI]

=
Qu
09
@
Qo
fut
I=
(=
=
b
3
~4
~4
v
®
Ea
¥
oO
Res
ns
ov
<
in
&

 

BAIT LW  ———— ——— i Ah Bd

-~ 2 1 ~ dow 03 wm - Joe] - vv Ta =p am oy wy nN lon edeeen - oo d= ~~ ~ a
which use time on the machine, in addition to the sequence of


; - 2 -

special coding courses which are given by the Center staff during
cach term and summer, A number of other colleges bring some of
their classes in for one or more laboratory sessions, Class use
will expand further, but its expansion will be harpered by the
limitations of access to the 704, as will be discunsed later,

The use of the machine by the other celleges has expanded
rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their work
(including their class exercises). But this use tenig to be self-
liniting for, as scon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec-
iate the possibilities in education and research of covpiterEl the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campus,
By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions he machines  / -
of their own. These are smaller machines, of the 650 £33) 80 pppalid
these instituions still come to the Center to use the 704 for their
‘bigzer jobs; but it does mean that the use of the Center iy the :
other Hew fngland colleges will tend to level off to a reciwonable
load (about one shif%, it now appears) rather than growing sontin-
uously, as the UIT usage is doing. This result, of course, jis in
accord with our conviction that computers should be as preva ant
as chemistry laboratories. |

In contrast, the MIT use of the 704 for research into isw
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy .11
chine time for such work, let alone routine projsct

requests for ma
calculations of the''production-run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which

has heretofore been reserved for IPLi use, In addition to the
research in solid-state theory, in meteorology and oceanography,
C end completely on machine conputation and could
already use more time thalt we can aliaot them, There are a number
rojects which are basic to the development of new
computers and, indeed, to the development of computers
ich are already handicapped by shortage of machine

O
Pr OCT J { owed ~~ OTT ® TINO - =11 cer C ta Ylby pf
(@} Ex 6 All 01:1 ne Lave. ODE) Le CLL engelr » LCL.

SER Bh Ariowt = capa” oe CAL ha.

oped an automatic operator rouvine which is being adopted by other

hes already devel=-

~My: ~ ‘ a ~ mv Co - ere "C3 1 . aT <3 Ale} wre
704 users,’ iiore g ssembly programs; such as the linking


i

loader, which combines Fortran, SAP and other special codes; COL.IT,
which enables the 704 to be used on language translation problems;
and LISP, which enables the machine to handle non-compubetienst
logic, such as algebraic and other symbolic manipulation, are
being developed and tested. The work at LIT in ¥his field, since
tnirlwind days, is well known.

-

Time-sharing Technigues: ve already have a typewriter connected
to the 704, which works on a time-sharing basis with our regular
operator routine, so new programs can be debugzed st the same vime
that regular computations are being carried out on other problems,
for example. The 704 cannot effectively accomodate more than one |
or two such sa telite chennels, but the Center staf! is now at work | os:
on 25 design and programning required to provide a 7090 with |/0 “24-0
to 32 such "substation consoles" of various effective speeds and
capacities, which can be placed at appropriate places around IT,
some perhaps in class rooms. cll
lischime-puided Dducation: Computers cs, of course, aid in
grading examinations and do other clerical tasks incidental to
large classes. Bub computers also can be programmed To carry out
some of the detailed question-and-answer interchange which occurs
in recitation sections. The Center staff is now working wlth the

Ee

ancuage Department at IIT to program the 704 Go guide a siudent

ct

hrough some of the phases of learning a new language, and (re

discussing the possibilities of training students in the det:iils
of mathematical manipulation by machine. Iere the machine veuld
pose questions for the student to answer and, on the basis of the
amswers., would mo on to other questions, as in a Te

1
oT;
¢)
ci
1b
=
Gn
pe
[=e
3
hy

: c
To avoid intolerable congestion at the main input console, a ios
students must be able to work with the machine simultaneouslyq ove

r

a
Bik

S » . J - "w — a 5} - £>
sharine machine time with resular computation. Therefo
-— wre whe dusty dal OA\ dtm LL, hd LLL - “ot i

- lal — — —— = — ay oe - - -
progrons which can only progress effectively if the machine 18
: Ar, |
3 G T57 alcul 13 n immediate demand ands <fLF
able CO Carl y Qld Ca 1.1L 00 1 LiGiCQLlc CLIC < x - Ja


the experiment or the scientist can #6 on to the next step and
request the next computation in tura. On the 704 this would
reguire the exclusive use of the machine, though only a fraction
of the 704 speed would be used; obviously again, time-sharing
techniques are needed,

These, and many other Programs now in progress, such as
the character-recognition Studien Sue “. +4 the research
on ecenomic forecasting end on operational behavior using large=-
scale simulation techniques, should be of particular interest to
IB, for they have direct bearing on the progress of computer
design and utilization, They represent the sort of cooperative
research between experts in different fields which KIT does so
effectively, and they involve the combination of research and
education for which LIT is pre-eminent. This work deserves
Support by IB, in eddition to the educational activities which
are already being Supported by the present contribution of the 704.
They can most effectively, y the installation of a 7090, replacing
the 704, in the near future; LIT will then be able to provide
the staff and ancillary equipment to push ahead with dispatch.
Because of the "inter-connectedness" of much of this research,
it can best be carried out (perhaps it can only be carried out)

 

in the atmosphere of mutual cooperation amd exchange of infor-
nation provided by the Computation Cater,

a

only a part of the resea

 

| Be Outlook for the Future = The activities mentioned above are Od

  
  

HE : He : AAFC
at HIT and a% the associated instit- LL
i AT dal.
vhe Computation a F

H
tb
U2
ci
ol
es
6
oO “9
>
Wp
=H
44)
QQ
td
=
[ee
ci
f
Mh
a
C
~5

utions, which desi

| Center, Obviously no machine, even of the capacity of £ retch, ar
growing demands tonlionn Howe LAM A

© need not, and probably should

all the demands. 4 much more realistic task would

EL

3

be Go concentrate on the elucational vasks, which will be supple
a

. = Sry - . a io a 15 : — ~ Ey : - RE > a 2 <
colleges and which, for the HIT class needs can be improved in
af £9 1 exalt 2 br TiMewelh ars «ee Tent y 1 3 1a MT) th = ‘3 S Tecan ama 3
CLILL1CL CACY 2.) LLOOACwSNAY Lig UE chliiiqgque we OUI CNRESIS Ies CLC ana on
at 3 - - - 2 3 wl -~y - -_ ww . y r <3
LOSE aspects of research which advance the ¢esign, programain
- -% -


other new directions,

which involve machine use (meteorology,
nuclear reactor design and the like) should be supported by the
Center by grants of some time only vhile they are in the formative
stage, before they have been shown to be so obviously practical
that they can ask for financial support, for further computation,
in their own risht. By the time they have developed their pro-
grams and thelr special technigues of machine use, and are ready
to,exploit these methods by long "production runs", they should be
in a position to obtain financing to run these computations on

one of the several other similar machines which are or will be

in operation in the vicinity,

Bven with this sort of limitation on the use of the Center
facilities, the demands on the Center will grow, but the growth,
if thus limited, will, we believe, be a manageable one, in keeping
with what could be impl@mented by the cooperative effort of IBN
and MIT, A 7090 within the year would not delay most of the work
outlined above too seriously. And, as outlined below, it would
be able to handle them for several years, while plans are made
for the next step. On the other hand, if a 7090 cannot be provided
soon, several of the projects mentioned above will have %o termine
ate or else will have to use other machines, which would inev-
itably mean the dissipation of the Center's usefulness in
coordinating this sort of research,

It is not intended that the Center should have & monopoly
of all computing around HIT; this would be unrealistic and, as
indicated above, impossible. But it must play an active role in
supporting and instigating research into new applications if it
is to continue to be the focus of new ideas and of exciting

iwity which will attract, train and inspire the Lay seneration

{
Proposal = It is proposed that scme Time me®U summer Or fall
a 7090 be subst tuted for the present 704, Details of the specific
equipnent to be included are already under discussion with TIBI

of machine experts.

0
ci
a
I=
©
a,

ould be included, and

a . in a do ny Be oy EOL aon 1 a TNT AN OQ at noe A Aa] ce
n the mean time the Center staff will be preparing pilot models

Gh Lids


BERR mw In et d= re Be 2 na of 3 dn - £2: 3
of the substacion, time~sharing cohsole

and the related Program
ricavions 80 Ghat the time-sharing aspects of

3

the research can
is inst alled,
Ihe total load on the 7090, the work of the cooverating
¢ and the machinz-use
research discussel above, would initially use more than one shift
d : use more than Ytwo shifts
for the first year, Consequently it would be possible for IRE:,

auring the first ycar of operation, to uiilize the third 1£6 dn

a manner similar to what was done on the 704 during its Mrst year

' s 9 - ~-
AT ATA = AT Ee ~~
( CTA T1L0N ¢ Bx 15 Ek

operation. It is likely that this IBM usage would taper off,

as it did wivh the 704, so that rogram outlined above

rps, it could e £ts (plus Saturdays);

sy the I? clas:=-

zr talking up to an sy and the new-
i

in addition to the

S 9
- - og - cxTet we ln \ do iyo N 2 Qh - “ -
management and coordination with other colleges; IB would supply
anag |

1aintenance, amortization of bul 1lding space, support of the research
“1 9 ¥ = s i [

assistantship nrogran and reimbursemen 1% of IT's expenses in the

CA dd 2 wien be PN coe a ‘. —

da 2 Jd

cooperative program, as it does at present with the 704, 5)
J NW 3» a he Go ne V \ or 5 A +


