fae 0G ( MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE oF TECHNOLOGY |
ee Gi DIVISION. OF SPONSORED RESEARCH :
: CAMBRIDGE Sp: Mass.

» : a - ov : “3 * . 4 - - - “a. - . > . -
te. ile - ~~ fi Fat ~<a : * - ~ . \ Fo
a < >Y id . : y o { ro TTR “
: : VE ¥ . J .. i a E A a . aan} ’
- FIN Loria 3 hy Brey LE hi = “ml A a a
2 P 7 i a py Se fa = TT ed ed . =
" : ! ad .“ “uy NA" it .
’ " : “4 fy .
ve, I REA eA i M7 iy ¥ . 50
"e : bE =

- a &o ge 3 FC : 5 A r= AR TX “

osm noms

©. <u OFFICE OF THE BIRECTOR 5 SREY. CTR RE Ie RO Tee MISES LT pT TE RS Sr, FE or Ca

 

National Setonse Foundation
os Washington 25, D Ve C. A
References Nr Grant. o-zsho

=  Geataonsn: > = :

ha Massachusetts Institute of F Teshnologs ob.
En ‘mite herewith fifteen (15) copies of a yropeasl
~~ for continuation of the gg Grant from
es ‘additional funds 1 in the amount 2 $13,000, Ths Le

This proposed extension afdthe additional
funds will provide for support of the Computing
Research program under the supervision of Pro-

fessor P, M, Morse for a full year of full
operation from July 1, 1957 to June 30, 1958

at an annual rate of ¢35,000. This takes into
consideration an estimated balance of $22,000 |
available under Grant G-2940, as of June 30, 1957.

One copy of the proposal has been signed by
the Prinei Investigator, the Assistant Chane
gellor and the Director of the Division of Spon
sored Research,

 

Vor truly yours,

Re Ps Webber
Assistant

RFW: tw
Enel, 15

+153 Dr. Ce. Fe Flos
~~ Frof, P. M, Morse

 

es


wh Akaka n

 

Er ————

aT Jew

PROPOSAL POR EXTENSION OF NSF GRANT No. NSFG2940
to June 30, 1958

Proposal

Although our IBM 704 is now delivered and is in storage at
MIT, delay in completion of the building to house it has delayed
commencement of the project financed by NSF grant NSF 62940. As
a result, it 1s estimated that only about $8,000 will have been
spent by June 30, 1957. Staff members, which were to have been
transferred to this project, have been continued on the Whirlwind
project until the change-ever, and most of them will not be trans-
ferred until summer. It 1s therefore proposed that the project be
continued until June 30, 1958, with an additional grant of only
$13,000, se that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to
June 1938, we can operate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecast. Estimated detells of budget
are appended, together with excerpts from the original proposal.

Progress to Date

Although the NSF funds have not been used to any extent, work
on the first aspects of the proposed research has gone forward
as rapidly as is possible without the 704 belng in running condi-
tion. A complete utility and a post-mortem program have been
developed, and tested out on borrowed 704 time, a much more
flexible assembly program than at present avallable has been
begun, ready for active coding when cur 704 is in operation.
Discussions have been begun with a view to investigating the

_ incorporation of a flexible cutput equipment utilizing Che
5 1 ‘n - 0 ™ 2a en vue a rE Th
. photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Hany programs
of importance in physics and engineering have been, or are belng
translated from Whirlwind language to 704 language, such as the
‘work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. GC. Slater
and the large-shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossi. The
meteorology group under Prof. Charney, recently moved here from
Princeton where their work was initiebeé by Von Neumann, is
planning to use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
a

MET) is >

require the advice and help of our staff to program thelr various
calculations. We will be assisting the Harvard Observatory staff

3
(0

in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the ICY satellite "shoots. Dr. S. Ulam of Los Alamos, whe has
been a Visiting Fellow to the Center © year, has been azslsting
us develop "Mente Carle’ techniquas. £., John McCoxthy of the
Dartmouth Mathematics Department (one he New Ingland colleges
participating in our program) will be ROX

interested in developing mac: legl

tions of the behavior 2 |
grams. The staff of €
che pessibllities of s
machine methe and
machine ¢rans i
expects Co use ou
groups, at the 23
WOIkK.

2

5
pw]
=?

red

e
go

TJ
0 eo
9

30 7
£3 [45] 9 |] f=
)

a
pe?
PS
Bl
bea Q¥

car and will be
er investlga-
nlatioen proe
ated in exploring
ermatien by
wge Department on
2 ol
1

J «3

5
~

Li
7 i? qq ds = TS as =
QL Lik bs Gl LACH La 0 >

0
te
a» V
2

w

= 0 - oe Lo -
Sr FQUNIGATAON,
Ph = ~~ Va -
: @ wale
a oo

~ AS
on TOES = HINT Ph cnrtthor
g gS =? ef os Np LG Bl Ge BSL oa Ne hs Al &

7
tt

ws


Extension of NSF G2940 Page 2

Plans for Next Year
A eA re at St crt ee em

All of these projects; and more, will stretch the capabilities
and energies of the Computation Center staff. Ue expect to add
two more menicr staff members this summer and hope to persuade two
men now completing their Doctor's degrees to stay on as Junior
stall members for a year or two. It is certain that most of the
research subjects outlined in our original proposal to NSF will
be begun this coming year; 1f can be expected that the NSF portion
of support for this work will reach the yearly rate of $35,000
as indicated earlier, and it is expected that this yearly rate
will continue at about the same level for several further years,
as was forecast in cur original proposal (see Enclosure B).

 

 

 

We therefore request that Grant NSF G2940 be extended to
June 30, 1958, with additional funds of $13,000,

Signed

 

M.I.T. Computation Center
Principe: Investigator

Approved

"Carl F. Flee
Assistant Chancellor

Dr. F. L. Fostér, Director
Division of Spensored Research

Enclosures A and B

a —— ———— Ee A —— A —————————————— pr ———
pec C e


Extension of NSF G2940

ENCLOSURE A

Budget for 1957-58

. Salaries |
Fractions of salaries of Senior Scientists
Prineiple Investigator (8 percent of $12,500)
Other Faculty Members (1/3 of $9,000)
Salaries of Full-Time Staff

1 Senior Investigator

1 Junior Investigator

1 Technician (compiter, programmer)

1 Secretary-Typist

Total Salaries

Permanent Equipment (desk computers, special
input or cutput equipment, etc.)

Expendible equipment and office supplies
Travel

Publication costs

~ Overheat at 15 percent of Total

Total Yearly Budget

Less Estimated Balarice of Funds under
Grant NSF G2040 as of July 1, 1057

Additional Funds requested for 1957-58

1,000
3,000

8,000
6,000
5,000
5,000

2,000
500
1,100
800

 

30,400
4,560

 

34,960

22,000

 

12,960


Extension of NSP G2940 Page 4

ENCLOSURE B

Excerpts from Original Proposal for Funds
(modified to bring it up to date)

Name and Address of Institution:
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research:
Research on Digital Computer Operation and Utilization

Investigation inte the patterns of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studies of
numerical analysis and machine programming metheds, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such speeifie applications of
machine techniques to problems in science, engineering, and
administration as will clarify the basic research and suggest new
points of view.

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1950 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research - Background Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its TO4 machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-clasgified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Machine Computation Committee.

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated thelr interest in partl-
cipating and have appointed faculty members te be thelr Insti-
tutional Representative. These representatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of thelr
institution. IBM is providing some funds for stipends for

graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of this research.

CL


Extension of NSF G2940 | Boa Page §

Enclosure B, Continued

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and baslec research in
all phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logie, in tech=-
niques of machine computation, and in specific applications of
machine operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus
appreciably broadening the range of applicability of computer
in the physical and social sciences and in engineering. 3

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work
will, in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of nunieri-
. eal analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the

other participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground
in new fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing
which on be needed in the application of digital computers to
new tasks. | |

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
‘already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind I programming; others are in various depart-
ments of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of
the participating colleges wlll join it for a semester or a year,
on leave from their institution, to work full time at the Center.

. IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance and
operating staff of the Center. We belleve that a contribution of
about $120,000 a year will support the activitles of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the
research carried on at the Computation Center by students and
staff of MIT and the participating colleges. We list later in
this proposal scme of the specific research projects we are pre-
pared to start on. Other projects will develop naturally from
these and from the problems encountered by the other workers at .
the Computation Center.

Part of these additional funds can be obtained from some
of the research projects which will use the facilities of the
Center. Although the use of the machine itself will not be
chargeable, most users will need advice from the Center staff as
to preparing their programs, will need help in detailed coding
and will prefer to have our stall carry out many of the actual
runs on the computer. This will add to the duties of the staff,
and part of the additional cost will be charged to those projects
which can afford this extra service. Those students and faculty
members who cannot afford to pay for this help will be able to
use the machine, but will be expected to do thelr own coding,


Extension of NSP G2940 Ee Page 6
Enclosure B, Continued

card-punching, testing and running of their problems. We
estimate $50,000 a year can come from payments from other

Dojens for the programming service described, leaving about
70,000 a year to be obtained from other sources.

The Rockefeller Foundation has granted the Computation
Center about $100,000 for three years, beginning July 1, 1957,
for the support of a staff to investigate applications of
digital computers in the social sciences. Thus only about
$35,000 a year is needed to complete the support of the Center
staff, enough to support that part of the staff concentrating on
the physical science aspects of the activity. In order to get
our plans well under way, this grant should be continued for
about three years (as with the Rockefeller grant), after which
She Progen should be re-evaluated to determine needs beyond

€.

Proposed Research - Posaibl 1 Directions of Investigation
i. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input languages;

the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical, logical or
business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and auto-
matic error analysis.

3. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more
general expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomial sums for
simulating standard functions by a common block of instructions
but small separate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and
methods of automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial
plug Richardson extrapolation or other means.

4. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques for
communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible
improvements in input-output equipment.

6. Experimental analysis and control using data trans-
mitted directly between computer and experiment.

T. Investigation of micreprogramming and other methods for
increasing the flexibility of computer design. The possibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a large-scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.


Extension of NSP (2940 | | : Page 7

Enclosure B, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers » including the possibility of cycles different
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
S.g8., several singlee-accumilator computers with common menory,and
the behavior of a computer with multiple accummlators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a 70% by utilization of
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence conver-
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration. j

Facilities:

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TO4 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complements
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 4,000
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpha-
betic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3 off-1ine
magnetic-tape-contreolled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled :
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the TO4 there will be 10 auxiliary punched card .
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
machine rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated
by IBM. SE

The Type 704 EDFM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers avallable today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and .
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment. -

Personnel - Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Associated
with the Project:

rinoipad Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his eareer in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Bush differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIP since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Peshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance” 1957,

and about a hundred journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further blographic details
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project.

Jee, - [VRE Ape


Extension of NSF G2940 Page 8

Enclosure B, Continued

Dr. Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 1946, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1940.
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the
utilization of various analogue computing equipment - differential
analyzers, etec., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 704. He received
a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Sc.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project.

Professor FP. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at
MIT since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1940.
He is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers"
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis” (1956) as well as a number of articles in
varicus research journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind Pro-
gramming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and will head the programming research group
in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in Electrical
Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate work in
Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his doctor's
thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience in the use
of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment and with
Whirlwind I. A fraction of his salary will be charged to the
Project.

 

Dr. F. J. Corbatd, whose primary responsibility will be the
administration and supervision of the IBM research assistantship
and associateship program of the 23 New England colleges at the
Center, will also carry out research and do consulting on research
problems, especially in the physical sclences. He recelved a B.S.
in Physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1950 and
a Ph.D. in theoretical solid state physics research at MIT in 1956.
During 1951-56 he was a research assistant in machine computation
and numerical analysis at MIT and is now a Research Assoclate at
the Center. Part of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center will be available for
advice and cooperation. From time to time, if one of them can
supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may be
charged to the Project.


Extension of NSP a2940

Page 9.
Enclosure B, Continued

Personnel -

—==S0mnel = Full-Time Members of the Projects
These will include some former members of the Whirlwind
Programming research group, such as Frank Helwig and Sheldon
Best and others. Some of the best of the IBM research assiste
ants at the Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate
periods, at full time, after they have finished their graduate
work and have relinquished their assistantships.


