Memo to: Professor P. Morse
From: Herb Teager

Time Sharing Project:

MIT's computational needs are clearly growing. This
growth is occuring both in the direction of expanding the
scope and complexity of current areas of computer applica-
tion, and in the direction of opening up entirely new areas
ef application. In addition, there is an ever present re-
quirement of making a computer more easy to use and access-
able; and minimizing the turnover time between problem for-
mulation and answer. It is the overall purpose of the time

sharing project to apply new techniques, hardware and sys-
tems for the resolution of these apparently conflicting re-
quirements. The basic approach of the project is to apply
multiprogramming (time sharing) techniques to a large com-
puter.

If we first conslder the present areas of computer ap-
plication, the larger problems are taxing the TOL computer
in several respects. First, 1s the requirement for longer
running times in blocks. Second, there is an increasing use
of programs wherein human decision is an important part of
the overall man-machine system. Since human decision can be

"quite slow in comparison to that of a machine, such usage

can result in a very low utilization of machine time.

Future areas of application are moving in the direction
of widespread usage of the computer as a direct aid for edu-
cation, larger and longer problems in simulation and optima-
tion, and real-time data processing. Each user would, of
course, like to have the full capaclty of a very large sys-
tem at his immediate beck and call. This 1s clearly im-
possible in terms of their conflicting requirements for
large blocks of machine time, with perhaps a fairly small

duty cycle of machine time required within that block,


Memo Page 2.

unless many users can use the machine at virtually the same
time, i. e., the machine is time shared.

What we are studying then is a system comprised of a
large capacity computer with specialized remote input-output
devices plus additional hardware and an overall programming
system. The function of this programming system would be,
in effect, to divide up the large machine into what would ap-
pear to each of many remote users as his own machine, with
almost the complete capability of the larger machine, but
running at a slower speed. The problems of equitably shar-
ing the total machine time, prorated among the various users,
accounting for their usage, and shifting from program to pro-
gram would be decided by the overall programming system.

There are three classes of problems that are being ac-
tively worked on by the Time-Sharing project. The first of
these 1s hardware, the second is the overall requirements of
the system, and the third is actually programming the system
for a particular mpachine.

The "Hardware" requirements mainly pertain to the gener-
al problem of communication between the user and the machine.
A person generally expresses his ideas by voice, or by draw-
ing or handwriting. He can also express himself (although)
not as readily) by using the keyboard of a typewriter. In
any event, the basic information rate necessary for a person

-’

te communicate with the machine is low. As part of this pro-
Jeet, input devices, that will allow the usage of handwritten
or sketched inputs are being actively studied. Typewriter
inputs, of course, are quite feasible as of today, and al-
ready have been tested on the 704 as will be described. Com-
munication, on the other hand, between machine and the human
is a more difficult and challenging problem. Information

can be presented to Che user in the form of a printed or
typed page, a display on a device that is capable of plot-
ting, such as a scope, or perhaps, eventually, through

sound. Display devices such as a typewriter suffer from


Memo Page 3.

limitations in both character font and in the rate at which
they can present information. Displays such as remote scopes
at present require a large amount of computer Time tO main-
tain a display for a viewer. In addition, if a computer is
to be used as a classroom adjunct, it is necessary to make
both input and output of such a size and form as to be easily
viewed by a large group.

The other "Hardware" aspects of the general time sharing
problem pertain to the terminal connections between the com-
puter and the remote "consoles"; such considerations as the
maximum data rates that must be transmitted by such links.
There are, in addition, many general considerations such as
the need for a fairly large backup memory with a low access
time, and the need for non-interference between coexisting
programs that must be solved through changes in the logical
structure of the particular computer.

From a "systems" point of view, all of the remote con-
soles, input-output and backup storage devices must operate
in such a fashion that very little time is lost shifting
from one internally stored program (or a portion of that pro-
gram) to another. The decision making process that will in-
ternally direct the computer to heed one, out of many com-
peting users, without either wasting time or slowing down
any of the users poses a difficult problem, but that is well
on its way to solution. Each of the users, in addition,
must be able to use any of the present and future programming
languages such as Fortran, Comit, SAP, LISP, APT, etc. which
in turn requires that these programming systems be readily
available to any of the users.

The overall program to accomplish these objectives can
only be written after the particular machine configuration,
auxillary input-output devices and information processing
strategies have been decided.

Progress to date:

As of today, the project has accomplished the following:


C1 Page 4.

(1) an electric typewriter has been connected to the 704, and
ap m Y itten that allows the 704 to be time
shared. Time sharing use has been achieved between the Auto-
ic Operator Program and a variety of users. Among the
programming systems that have been successfully time-shared
are LISP, SAP, and, in addition, Fortran will soon be added.
Time sharing has been proved feasible. (2) Several auxil-
lary devices have been added to the 704 in order to test out
their feasibility. Among these are a so called "Alarm Clock"
which in the larger system will aid in accounting, prorating
of time, and preventing a single program from monopolizing
time. Among the others is a "Light Pen" which can convert
a scope into a drafting board for entering curves and fi-
gures, and a paper tape reader which will allow data reduc- |
tion problems to be time shared. (3) An overall programming
system for the time sharing called FMIS has been developed
and 1s being used. This programming system while being de-
veloped largely to serve as a means of communication be-
tween programmer at a typewriter and his program, has also,
in addition, proved that programs can coexist in memory with- |
out mutual interference, without the need of either a change |
in the logical construction of a machine, or by recourse to |
normal time consuming fully interpretive running of programs.
The system, in addition, has broad applicability to the gen-
eral problem of using the computer as an aid for on-line
program testing (debugging).

Future Plans:

The largest, non technical problem faced by the project
is to secure sufficient funding and staffing to carry out its
program. Work is being carried out in laying out the overall
research and development program necessary to achieve the
system capabilities desired.

With the present manpower and facilities at the disposal

the project, work is being carried out in the following


Memo

Page 5,

(1) Requirements fop classroom use, including display
equipment either direct handwritten Of typewritten input, am
programming Systems for both handwriting analysis and Simpler
problem statement (such as the normal formulae and conven-
Cions of 1 particular field). The Work on direct input is
centering about devices that Will have the appearance of ga
normal blackboard or drafting table. The handwriting analy-
Sis Programming is being carried On as part of thesis work,
Chat problen bresentation from formulae input will develop
from the present "macrodirectiyve"” work of the MIT Solid
State Physics group. As has been indicated, the remote dis-
Play problem is in a much less Satisfactory state, as work
is at present centering around devices sueh as the tele-
type equipment used to project ticker tape quotations in
brokerage houses. Other possibilities include the develop-
ment of g self-terminating Scope display that could use
Projection Television Cype of equipment,

(2) Requirements for normal remote console use: In this

Putl-output data rates and the Cype of €quipment that can meet
these objectives. For the Present, 1t appears that any one
of a number of Cypewriter types with additional pushbuttons
for special purposes will suffice. These are for the most
part presently avallable.

(3) Definition of the overall system: Analysis is being
carried out to determine Che Necessary configuration of the
overall system.. This work is still largely only in qualitg-
tive terms.

(4) Formulation of Che overall Programming system: In
this area, with the exception of small Pieces of the problem,
Such as the Linking Loader and the FMIS system, very little
has been done. Tt 1s expected that a much greater rate of
Progress will become available as the system configuration,
manpower, and funding are more firmly established.


