= Lf on fiTaid Jeheipro fo pois ad fh AIEE IRE." T5A
_— Hiriehlis Hov. (754

A MULTI-CHANNEL ANALYZER FOR HEART POTENTIALS

CeVe Nelson, Ph.D.
A.F. Wilkinson
and
LeW. Bowles, MeSe

Cardiology Research Laboratory, Maine Medical Center, Portland, Maine; and Dept. of
Electrical Engineering, University of Maine, Orono, Maine.

A concept frequently used in electrocardiology is that of the "heart-vector”,
"his may be defined as the resultant vector of all the individual current sources and
sinks in the heart. Another concept is that of the "equivalent dipole", which, as we
understand it, is the single dipole which could be substituted for the heart genera-
tor without altering the potential distribution on the body surface. From this point
of view, the resultant dipole is not necessarily synonymous with the equivalent di-
poles That is, although there may not always be an equivalent dipole, there must
always be a resultant dipole, by definition. If the sources and sinks, or groups of
these, are too widely dispersed throughout the heart volume, the resultant dipole
may not have much physiological significance, but it must exist, nevertheless,

It has been shown (1) that the resultant dipole moment M of a system
of sources and sinks inside a volume conductor can be found by an integration over
the bounding surface of the conductor. In the general case, one has the sum of the
integrals of potential and of normal current. If the surface is metal, potential V
is constant, and normal current only is integrated. If the surface is insulating,
however, ln=c, and it is necessary to integrate potential only. The latter case ob-

viously applies to the human body, and we have

f1=-Jhvy ds (1)

     

#Established Investigator of the American Heart Asscciation. This project is

supported by grant no. H=2590 from the National Heart Institute, U.S. Public Health
Service.


waere n is a unit normal vector, and /5 is an element of surface. The theory
holds for a volume of any shape, but simplifications can sometimes be obtained if
a geometrical figure is used. For the human body, if we assume that the trunk has
the shape of a right cylinder of elliptical or any other cross-section, then Mx

and My are given by integrations over the walls only, and Mz by an integration over

the top and bottom surfaces. We have then

Mx = A JTV dy dt 2d [JV iw MSE (2)
My coh [Vide dz = 4 J) vac 682 (3)

Me = & Jf V de dy (+)

So far we are unable to find Mz by this method, since the head and legs
are poor approximations to parallel plane surfaces. In order to determine Mz with
MX and My given, it is only necessary to find the vertical angle of the vector, and

this can be found approximately by means of Kinthoven's equation or by some similar

vector method.

FIGURE 1

 

For a cylinder, equation (2) can be evaluated by measuring the potential
distribution around the cylinder at a given horizontal level. © is the angle between
the normal to the surface and the #X axis. The integral of V ces @ Jf is evaluated
for a number of horizontal levels and these values are plotted against Z . The
area under this curve is the required double integral, M is found from eq. (3)

in a similar manner,


In carrying out this procedure we use a belt containing 20 chlorided
silver electrodes, each 1 cm in diameter. The belt is fastened around the sub-
Jects! chest at a given horizontal level, and the electrocardiograms taken. We
use dual-beam oscilloscope display and a Grass camera, so have adequate sensitivity,
resolution, and frequency response in the records. A standard lead, such as limb
lead 1I, is taken simultaneously with each chest lead. If 5 different levels are
measured, we end up with 100 records. It is then necessary to choose a certain in-
stant of time, such as that corresponding to the peak of the R wave of the standard
lead, and to measure the deflections from all the records at this time. From these
data, the curves are plotted and the integrations performed. This process gives
values of Mx and My for one instant of time. We then have to choose other points
on the standard lead and repeat the whole process in order to get a complete pic=-
ture of Mx and My during the cardiac cycle. The situation is actually even worse
than this, because there will be slight differences between successive electrocar-
diograms from the same lead, and one should take the average of 3 readings for
greater accuracy.

We are also using the method to determine the heart-vector of animal
nearts suspended in a spherical plastic chamber. A rabbit heart, for example, is
suspended in the sphere on the end of a perfusion cannula. &lectrodes are mounted
on the inner surface of the sphere at 30° intervals. The sphere is also filled with
fluid, and the entire assembly is immersed in another lucite chamber which has pro-
vision for circulating fluid for temperature control. By measuring electrocardiograms
from all 62 electrodes, we can find the three-dimensional heart-vector in magnitude
and angle. By using the 2nd moment, and taking another surface integration, the

location of the resultant dipole can also be found.


It is evident that some form of multi-channel analyzer or computer would
be helpful in this project, to say the least. Analyzers for bioelectric potentials
have been developed by others (2-L), but we decided to design our own to suit the
particular requirements of the method described. In addition, we wished to use a
different type of data display. A block diagram of the analyzer is shown in Figure
2. Twenty circumferential leads are connected to individual balanced preamplifiers.
The amplified signals are then applied to an electronic commutator with a scanning
rate of 1 KC or a sampling rate of 20 KCo A 20 KC crystal-controlled master oscillator
is used to drive the commutator. The composite commutator output is applied to a
broadband amplifier and thence to an FM tape-recorder (Ampex FR-1100). A 2nd transe
pert is used in order to get a playback-to-record ratio of 1/128. The data is then
sufficiently slowed down so that it car be applied to a cathode-ray oscilloscope
and photographed. Our final result then consists of 1000 graphs per second of poten-
tial as a function of electrode distance. These graphs canhot only be used in de=-
termining the resultant dipole moment, but also show details of the heart's electrical
activity as it appears on the chest wall. Eventually we hope to add circuits which
will multiply the potentials by the contour factor, such as ¢€¢5 © and sin €, and
also perform the integrations. The front end of this system is similar to a telemetry
system. The main difference, however, is that our final result is the amplified and
filtered signal output from the commutator; we have no need to recover the original
signals fron. each electrode.

The commutator consists of 20 transmission gates (5) each of which is
controlled by a transistor binary. The binaries are connected in a ring in such a
way that only one gate is open to transmission at a time. The input signal is
connected through the open gate to a common line and applied to the broadband ampli-
fier. Each trigger applied through the switching stage causes the open gate

condition to move sequentially from gate to gate. The unit is essentially a transis-


torized version of a twenty-channel electronic multiplexer reported by the Naval
Ordnance Laboratory (6).

Each diode gate and its associated counter stage are Ce on a
LU" x 6" plug-in printed circuit board. The interstage circuit of the counter is
also mounted on this board. 20 such identical boards plus L additional boards for
the trigger circuits comprise the entire commutator exclusive of the power supply.
Power requirements are #50V and -50V at 1C ma each and #1CV and -20V at 100 ma
sachs The ring counter is made up of 20 binary stages using 2NL39NPN transistors.
These individual stages are coupled together by diode-capacitor interstages to
close the ring. Although no clamping circuits were used in the individual binary
stages, the rise and fall time of the collector pulses were less than 2 microseconds.
Diode clamping was added to the switching stage itself to improve the stepping action
of the ring. The input impedance that is seen by the signal source when the gate is
open is the back resistance of two diodes in parallel. Silicon junction diodes are
used to keep this impedance high. Tests made on the diode gates indicate a trans-
mission gain of 0.996 for the open gate with a linearity of 0.5% from 10 millivolts
to 5 volts for both positive and negative signals, With the gate closed, input

signals were attenuated more than 60 db,


1.

2e

3e

Le

Se

6.

 

REFERENCES

Gabor, De. & Nelson, C.Ve: Determination of the resultant dipole of the
heart from measurements on the body surface.
Jo. Appl. Physics 25, L13, 1954

Lilly, J.Cet A method of recording the moving electrical potential grad-
.ients in the brain: the 25-channel Bavatron
and electroiconograms. Conf. on Elect. Inst.
in Nucleonics and Meds N.Y. 1949

Goldman, S., Santelman, W., Williams, C., and Alexander, F.:
The area display of the electrical activity of
the heart. M.I.T. Research Lab. of Electronics,
Tech, Report Né. 121, Nov. 15, 1950.

Barus, Ce A low-level high speed switching system for brain mapping.
I.R.E. Trans. on Med. Electronics, P.G.M.E.=T7,
Dec. 1956

Millman, J. & Puckett, T.H. Accurate linear bidirectional gates. Proc.
I.R.E. L3, 27=37, 1955

Berns, K.L. & Bishop, B.E.: Twenty-channel electronic multiplexer. NAVORD
Report L648, NOLC Report LO3, Naval Ordnance
Laboratory, Corona, April, 1958.


*RVHOVIA 400718 *HOLVLAAAOS OINONLOTIZ

Jedeyg oy 02
J07 yng J ETTT2S0
ord I} Sen

    

Sug Indu JeyTrdwy uowwon


WVYOVIA AD0TI “SIVIINTIOL IVYAH NOJ YAZAT/NY TANNVIID- IL IAN

3C02SOT[125)

    

  

Oc#

 

 
        
 

02
JTF Id wos
oeqle 1g
£7
JaTJ Tuwesdd “ €
gop Jona 28 {J Coy ;
[1 puegozodyg J0}e , NLLOY
11 QUILL 0) Dios TH
eH
D ¢
JIT] FTCmeaay
|& yr. 0X
JIT] TIGR ax]
S8poJI323TTq

   

$3TOOJ TD

Aunty


