Academiclan A, A, Dorodnitsin

Page Two April 13, 1959

System for the Univac 1105 there, and who would be interested in such a
possible exchange. I have also talked to Dr, Nicholas Metropolis of the
University of Chicago, who has evidenced interest in such a series of
lectures in the U. S, S, R., to Dr. Householder, of course, to Dr, Jack
Moshman, a statistician and Secretary of the Association for Computing
Machinery, and others. I am sure that if you have the names of these or
other U. 3, computer scientists that you would like to invite in return, a
suitable group could be arranged to visit you.

I am very pleased that my leadership of our Computation Center here now
allows me to plan such exchanges further and hope that the trips of last
year can be duplicated. If you and, of course, Academician Lebedev would
like to join the party, we would of course be exceedingly pleased to have
you suggest that, and arrange to have the size of the groups extended.
However, I must again warn you that there will be little emphasis on actual
machine hardware at the Chapel Hill meesting, with somewhat more at the
Association for Computing Machinery meeting in Cambridge.

We would again plan to arrange meetings along the route from New York to
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill to Cambridge, and Cambridge to New York for
the visitors to meet and talk to other ‘merican computer scientists, but

I think they would probably meet almost everyone of interest either at
Chapel Hill or Cambridge.

Professor Perlis is joining me in this invitation, and hopes to have further
discussions with Trshov on their mutual interests. My wife, of course,
would be pleased to see and talk to you again,

The main purpose of this letter, of course, is to begin correspondence about

a second such exchange of lecturers. I hope that you and Academician Lebedev,
to whom I am writing a similar letter, as well as Professor Kantorovich and
Dr. Zrshov, will feel that this is a good idea. I myself value highly the trip
that I made to the Soviet Union last fall, as do all of my friends who went

with me. The details of the final exchange, of course, can be negotiated in
other letters between now and the date of the conference, but I would

appreciate an answer as early as possible since I have plans as to the lecture
schedules, etc., that must be made before about June 15. 1 hope yeou, of
course, will answer in Russian, which I wish I could write better!

Sincerely yours,

W. Coar gl

ohn W, Carr, III, Director
Research Computation Center

 
   

cc: Professor A, J. Perlis
Dr. W. M. Whyburn, Vice President,
Universgity of North Carolina /
Professor Philip Morse, M.I1. T., Computer
Laboratory