\m

' : % ﬁﬁiﬂﬁr ﬂee. Put. idea. Net. 6. Ire-e. Dr. Feet-r. Mr. mull-e
‘ ﬁE (‘3F;:I’HE T 3;!- ' w. Ll.ﬂ) w w. a.” MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
r :3.

 
 

Mr. Frank M. Vet-huh
Room 7-306
H.13-

Re: Oiﬂce oi Suttotiul Service.

   

i

The purpose of thin raemrandum ie to cleriiy the
functions o! the Oiiice oi Stetistlcei Servioee and the rela-
tioeehlpa between thie office end other egeeciee oi the
mum.

The primary responsibility of the Diiice of sum-
ticel Services in to furnish ite services to the edminletre—
live omen. the tucking departments and the research gro-
jecte. A: a service unit. it is not exyected to cerry cu
teaching ectiv'iﬂee or to elem-m the project eopervieiom oi
speeeered reeeerch. Teechin. reepoeeihilitieo my be
accepted by the Director of the Ofﬁce but these reepoeal-
bilitiee will be his pereoeelly and not that of the Oliice itself.
The ELC. reseerch project now eopervieed by the 01:1“
will he completed but further project: oi thi- type will not
he undertone. The Office will oi coerce continue to provide
services to the DJ.C. reeeerch projecte throughout the
institute where the responsibility for project eupervieioe ie
not that of the 011i“ oi Steueticel Services. Likewiee in
teaching. the use ofthe mechinee of the Omce will he echoi-
ul‘ed for teechieg pun-pone when thie is poeeihle. hut again
the reeponeibility for coureee in computation! methode end
eimiier coureel will not in that of the Office.

 

 

 

 

\ Hereafter the Eirector oi the Oifice oi Statieticel
Services will eerve only as ea advisor to the instrumente-
tion Laboratory with respect to the Rockefeller Differential
Analyser. The instrumentation Laboratory will have com-
plete juriediction over thie mechine. being responsible [or
its pereoenei, equipment. space requirements. budget and
fiscal edminietretion. The Analyzer will continue to be
available for work required by other laboratories or by
departments {or thesis work or other types of work but
arrangements for its on end for the peymente required in
return should he mode with the lnetrumentetion Laboretory.
Accounting procedures end billing methods will he euhject
to approve] ”by the D.!.C. Fiscal Oifice. The Analyzer will
be under the complete management of the lnetrurneotetion
Laboratory.