Minutes of the Seventh Meeting
othe |
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation
January 10, 1951

Persons Present: C. W. Adams, H. Feshbach, 4. Kopal, C. Lin,
| P. M. Morse and E. Relssner

The Committee continued its discussion of possible courses
at the Institute in machine cslculation. The discussion re-
ported in the second paragreph of the minutes of the January 3
meeting was not continued in any detall because it was felt
that there was not avallasble a faculty member to teach this
course, elther this year or next. It was &greed, however, that
such a course should be discussed further at & later meeting.
The proposal of Mr. Forrester (mentioned in the first paregraph
of the minutes of January 3) end Mr. C. W. Adams, concerning a
laboratory course in digital machine methods, was then dls-
cussed. It was felt that several aspects of the proposal should
be modified before it went on to the Electrical Engineering De-
partment with the Committee's blessing. Conseguently, lr. Adaus
was called and he came over to discuss the matter with the Come
mittee, After discussion, it was agreed that Mr. Adams should
try rewriting the proposal and to have Mr. Forrester turn in
his covering letter, plus the revised proposal, in the near
future to the Committee again. It was felt that the Committee
then would be able to send this proposal slong to the Electri-
cal Engineering Department, suggesting that the course, as
proposed, be given as & special problems course this conlag
term, and that, based on the experience of this term, the de-
partment and the Committee would consider later as to whether
this should be made & regular laboratory course with a regulsr
- Blectricael Engineering Department number, beginning next year.

The discussion of contract provisions, mentioned in the
third paragraph of the minutes of January 3, was then taken up.
1t was felt that the Committee should, in the near future, make
& recommendation to the Provost concerning such contract
provisions. The Chairman asked each member of the Committee to
consider the wording of such & proposal.

Morse reported that he was to attend the Pagui ty Council
Thursday, January 11, to discuss the proposed activity of the


\

Minutes of the Seventh Heeting of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation | | -le

Committee and its present status. He ssid that 1t was hoped
that this would complete the formalities connected with the
formation of the Committee. Morse also reported that it was
not yet definite that Verzuh would be given leave of absence
the second term of this year, &nd that he would try to see
Stratton before the next meeting of the Committee. He also re-
ported that the computation seminars would be continued next
term. Mr. Lening (and perhaps Dr. Draper), now in charge of
tne differential snslyzer, will be present at the next meeting
of the Committee 9:30 A.M,, January 17, to discuss the future
of the differential analyzer.

“STAN
Philipr¥. Morse,

Chairman


