o

-ed for Parallel Development in the Social Sciences - The work

we have proposed for support by NSF and ONR 1s to be primarily for
applications 1n the physical sciences. But the potentialities of
machine computers in the social sciences and in operations research
has equal or greater promise. In economics, in management problems,
in some aspects of psychology and in other fields, the data is
large in quantity, often requiring much statistical processing

and speclal display befecre its purport can be understood. Many
mathematical techniques, now being developed for these subjects,
require tremendous amounts of computation before they can. be
applied to specific problems. Although the appropriate machine
technigues and the special input-output equipment have not been
Investigated very completely, it 1s already cleer that they will
often differ considerably from those devised for the physical
sciences and should be investigated separately, in close collabora-
tion with specialists In the social sciences. The grants requested
of NSF and ONR will not support the detalled theoretical study and
special equipment development Which this research will require.

It is, therefore, appropriate and desirable that a re-
quest be made for a separate grant for the development of machine
techniques useful for these flelds., We now have, at M.I.T. and
in the neighboring colleges already planning to use the Computation
Center, a variety of specialists in the social sclences, who would
be interested in collaborating with the staff of the Center in
developing such techniques. Funds for the support of specific
studles, in particular fields, can and should be requested and
granted separately. But there is need to support the work of the
Center?s staff in devising new techniques, in adapting known tech-
nigques to new fields and in helping social scientists effectively
to utilize digital computers in their studies.

Posslble Directlions for Research - It is not possible at present

to enumerate in detall the directions this investigation of cowputer
techniques will take. Several promising leads have already arcused
interest, however:

1. A basic investigation of the machine technigues for
computation in the general field of linear programming--dynamic
programming--input-output analysis, which promises to be of con-
siderable importance in economics and in operations research. The
economics departments at both Harvard and M.I.T. are interested
in applying such techniques to their work. Professor Orcutt at
Harvard and Professor Sclow at M.I.T. are on Advisory Committees
to the Computation Center and will cooperate in this work. The
computations are quite difficult for present equipment but 1t
appears likely that new programs, planned to utilize the considerably
greater high-gpeed storage of the new machine, can greatly improve
the speed of solution. It is likely that fundamental improvements
In technigques of solution of these problems will also prove valuable

__;._-—