2B

 

should be of particular interest to IBM, for they have direct
bearing on the progress of computer design and utilization. They
represent the sort of cooperative research between experts in

- different fields which MIT does so effectively, and they involve
the combination of research and education for which MIT is pre-
- eminent. This work deserves support by IBM, in addition to the
educational activities which are already being supported by the
present contribution of the TO4. They can most effectively be
supported by the installation of a 7090, replacing the 704, in
the near future; MIT will then be able to provide the ancillary
equipment to Push ahead with dispatch. Because of the "inter-
connectedness" of much of this research, it can best be carried
out (perhaps it can only be carried outs in the atmosphere of
mutual cooperation and exchange of information provided by the
Computation Center.

Outlock for the Future: The activities mentioned above
are only a part of the research, at MIT and at the associated |
institutions, which desires to use the facilities of the Computation
Center., Obviously no single computing machine can be itself satisfy
indefinitely the continually growing demands from the New England
educational institutions, for all their research and educational
computer needs. However the facilitles of the Center need not,
and probably should not, satisfy all the demands. A much more
realistic task would be to concentrate on 1) the educational tasks,
which will be supplemental to the on-campus small machines for the
other New England colleges and which, for the MIT class needs, can
be improved in efficiency by time-sharing techniques; 2) on thesis
researclz and 3) on Jjust those aspects of research which advance the
design, programming and utility of the computer in new fields.
Research programs in other new directions, which involve machine
use (metmrology, nuclear reactor design and the like) should only
be supported by the Center by grants of time while they are in the
formative stage, before they are far enough a2long to be able to
ask for financial support, for further computation, in their own
righat. By the time they have developed their programs and their
special techniques of wachine use, and are ready to exploit these
methods by long "production runs?, they should be in a position to
obtain financing to make these runs on one of the séveral other
simllar machines which are or will be in operation in the vieinity.

Even with this sort of limitation on the use\bf the Center
facilities, the demands on the Center will grow. But the growth,
if thus limited, can, we believe, be handled by the 'cooperative
effort of IBM and MIT. A 7090 within the year would; not delay most
of the worlk outlined above, too, seriously. And, as outlined below,
1t would be able to handle them for several years, while plans are
made for the next step. On the other hand, if a 7096 cannot be

o |