Dr. Grad «Pa July 13, 1959

myself as chalrman, Professor Walter Freiberger of the Depart-
ment of lMathematlcs at Brown University as secretary, and other
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next year or two i1t would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to
college computing centers. The discussions could fecus around
four general areass

1. Budget and adminlstration: What are good and bad ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "s0ld" and
vhat Pfracticon should be free?

2. Computer-criented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of machines?
What are the cppertunitiles for theses in thesc fields, how are
such theses to be supervised and how are degreecs to be granted
on the basls of these theses?

5. Curriculum and instructlion: What sort of courses should dbe
offered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of cther appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual
content, intimately involving computing machines, are being
given and in vhat depaytmente?

4. Computing seyvice to undversity departments: Whoe in the
college should be given "free time"? UWhat priority system can
be set up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between free and paying users? Uhat are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory commlttces to administer such a
servigce program?

It was f'elt that a confercnee on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would resuls
in a report cwmbodying cuggestions and matual agreenénts on these
matters, would be of very great help to many directors of college
computing centers, particularly those just beginning or planning
te begin. It would geem to me that NSF would also be interested
in the results of such a conference. Certalnly the question of
how college ccomputing centers it into their academic astructure
an@ how they can help more completely to cducate sclentists and
engineers is something which has been a subjecet of discussion in
various parts of NSP to my knowledge. My question to you, there-
fore, is an exploratory onc: Is NST interested in such a confere
ence? Ig it intercsted encugh to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, according to
the latest 1list of Professor Reeves of Ohic State. UWe had thought