404 J. B. GOODENOUGH AND A. L. LOEB

This necessarily follows if there is covalent bonding in
the tetrahedral sites which resists a distortion of its
coordination angles.

The tetragonal symmetry in MnzOy4 v-MnyOs,
ZnMn.0,, CuFe,04 CuCr:04 CdInyO4 and CalnyOy
is believed due to the formation of an ordered system of
four coplanar, covalent bonds and two linear, ionic
bonds in the octahedral sites which are occupied by
MnT' Cu'l or In!!! cations. If the indate is inverse,
the indium ions which are in the tetrahedral sites bond
covalently ; those in the octahedral sites form an ordered
array of square bonds only if the bivalent ions also form
covalent bonds. The lattice is therefore cubic if the
bivalent cation is electrovalent. The tetragonal sym-
metry of metallic indium is also believed due to the
formation of a (dsp?®) covalent bond.

Finally it is believed that there are no Mn** cations
in Mn3Oy4, v-MnyO3, and ZnMn,Os.

V. MAGNETIC EXCHANGE

A. Exchange Mechanisms

Three mechanisms, known as direct exchange, double
exchange, and superexchange, have been used to explain
the interaction between electron spins. These inter-
actions are based on the Pauli exclusion principle.
Direct exchange tends to align the net spin on neigh-
boring lattice elements antiparallel to each other. In
spinels cations are separated by anions without net spin
so that direct exchange is negligible.

Double exchange, as proposed by Zener,* requires the
transfer of electrons between two kinds of ions, par-
ticularly two of the same element but with different
charges, and hence is inhibited if these cations are
ordered. Double exchange tends to align spins parallel
to each other; also it produces a relatively high con-
ductivity.

Kramers suggested the third mechanism, called
superexchange. Superexchange is due to the admix-
ture of excited states with the ground state of a system
containing two like cations separated by an anion. The
excited states are the result of removing an electron
from the oxygen ion O and placing it in an empty or
half-filled cation orbital. If the cation orbital is empty,
the transferred electron aligns its spin parallel to the net
spin already on the cation in accordance with Hund’s
rule. If the orbital is already half filled, the transferred
electron aligns its spin antiparallel to that of the
electron already there, and hence to the existing net
spin on the cation. The O~ ion from which the electron
is transferred has a net spin which 1s antiparallel to that
of the removed electron. The net spin on the oxygen ion
is therefore antiparallel to the spin of the reduced
cation if the cation d shell was originally less than
half filled ; parallel, if the cation d shell was originally at
least half filled. These alignments are shown in Fig. 5.

 

% (. Zener, Phys. Rev. 82, 403 (1951).
W H. A. Kramers, Physica 1, 182 (1934).

oo 100

(a) (b)

CATION d SHELL AT

N d SHELL LESS
Sy LEAST HALF FILLED

THAN HALF FILLED

FiG. 5. Spin alignment in superexchange.

According to the superexchange model the net spin
on the O~ ion interacts directly with that of a neighbor-
ing cation on the other side. It was predicted, therefore,
that the two cations orient their spin parallel if their d
shells are less than half filled, antiparallel if the d shells
are more than half filled.

Kramers’ model is inconsistent in two ways with the
concepts of covalence in spinels which are proposed in
this paper. In the first place it was assumed that when
the cation d shell is at least half filled, any additional
electron will occupy a half-filled d orbital and align its
spin antiparallel to that existing on the cation. The
Pauli principle would indeed appear to predict such an
alignment. It should be recalled, however, that this
prediction is based on the supposition that there are no
unfilled orbitals available that are degenerate with the
3d orbitals. When a new electron is added to a cation,
it can either occupy an empty orbital or a half-filled one.
In the former case energy may be required to raise the
electron to the energy of the empty orbital, but this
energy may be offset when the new electron aligns its
spin parallel to the existing spin on the cation. In the
latter case no energy is required to raise the electron to a
higher level, but no exchange energy is gained, because
the electron now must align its spin antiparallel to the
existing spin. Therefore the spin alignment in super-
exchange depends on whether the exchange energy is
larger or smaller than the difference in energy between
d orbitals and the next level. It has been shown
that, because of covalent overlap, there are indeed
hybrid orbitals whose energy is about the same as that
of the filled, or partially filled, d orbitals. Therefore
superexchange would always produce parallel alignment
when hybrid cation orbitals are occupied because, in
effect, the d shell 1s extended by s and p orbitals of the
same energy and is therefore less than half filled.

In the second place Kramers assumed the transfer of
an electron from an oxygen ion to a cation. Somehow
this transferred electron must retain its identity as an
oxygen p electron since it is assumed that the spin on the
resultant O lon remains antiparallel to that of the
transferred electron. Without covalence it is not at all
clear why an electron should be simultaneously identi-
fied with both a cation and an anion. On the other hand,
if the excited state of the system is covalent, this would
indeed be the case.

In crystals both sides of an O~ p orbital may overlap
with an empty cation orbital. For coordinate covalence

 

THEORY OF IONIC ORDERING 405

the overlapping O orbital and empty cation orbita]
should be nearly degenerate. In ionic crystals this is not
the case for the ground state of the ion. However, if the
cation in an electrovalent crystal has a net spin ex-
change energy is gained if one of the two electrons i;l the
oxygen p orbitals is excited to become part of the cation
Since only one electron participates in this bond. the
bond is called “semicovalent.” “Semicovalence” is thus
defined as a bond due to the coupling of a single anion
electron to the net spin of a cation. Fe* and Mn2+
which have been observed to favor tetrahedral sites ir;
the spinel lattice, are thought to be stabilized in these
sites through semicovalence. In Sec. ITIC, 1, the term
“partially covalent” was used to explain this stabili-
zation.

Obviously the electron that participates in semi-
covalence has a spin parallel to that of the cation. The
other anion electron therefore has a spin antiparallel to
the spin of that cation. This other electron may partici-
pate in semicovalence with a cation on the other side of
the anion. In that case the spins of the two cations would
be coupled antiparallel to each other. This model pro-
vides a mechanism for antiferromagnetic coupling
between two cations separated by an anion. This
mechanism is called ‘“‘semicovalent exchange.” Its
strength depends on the overlap between the O*~ p
orbitals and the cation orbitals, and therefore on the
cation-oxygen-cation angle. If semicovalence occurs
with one cation only, the interaction between the anion
and other cations is confined to direct exchange, and
weak ferromagnetic coupling may result.

In summary, since the superexchange model has only
been tested in the case of ferromagnetism and anti-
ferromagnetism (ferromagnetic coupling can be ex-
plained by other mechanisms, such as double exchange),
it is suggested that semicovalent exchange is a more
consistent model for the antiferromagnetic-exchange
interactions which have previously been attributed to
superexchange. There are three conditions which favor
semicovalent exchange : the formation of predominantly
electrovalent bonds, cations with empty hybrid orbit.als
which overlap with a full anion p orbital, and a l'ocatlon
of interacting cations at opposite sides of an anion.

B. Magnetic Properties of Some Oxides

There are two exchange mechanisms whic}} are im-
portant in predominantly electrovalent metallic oxides,
double exchange and semicovalent exchange. Double
exchange, which causes ferromagnetic alignment a.nd
increased conductivity, occurs between cations of like
atoms, but different ionization, if they are randor.nly
distributed on equivalent lattice sites. In a spinel
lattice there is negligible double-exchange }nteractlon
between tetrahedral- and octahedral-site cations. .

Semicovalent exchange couples cation moments anti-
ferromagnetically. This coupling is strongest when t'he
cation-anion-cation bond is 180°. In the spinel lattice

neighboring octahedral cations make a 90° angle with
their common anion, and the semicovalent exchange
between them is small compared to that between the
tetrahedral and octahedral cations. These mechanisms
are applied below to several metal oxides, and in each
the semicovalent-exchange mechanism is compared
with superexchange.

It should be noted that cations which form coor-
dinate-covalent bonds do not participate in either
semicovalent exchange or double exchange. Such ions
are therefore paramagnetic.

1. Some Antiferromagnelic Crystals

In oxides which have cations in one valence state
only, double exchange cannot occur. If the metal is a
transition element, semicovalent exchange is possible.
Many such lattices are known to be antiferromagnetic.
A typical example is MnO which has the rock-salt
structure. Whereas superexchange would require the
formation of Mn*O!~ in an excited state, semicovalent
exchange couples the system antiferromagnetically
through electron pairs whose orbitals contain an ad-
mixture of excited Mn''O'! states.

It is interesting that the Curie points of manganous
compounds with the same rock-salt structure increase
with the substitution of anions of lower electronega-
tivity, »iz.,, MnO (122°K), MnS (165°K), MnSe
(247°K), MnTe (307°K).* Such a relation is consistent
with a model which predicts that the strength of the
antiferromagnetic coupling is increased as the admixed
excited states become more nearly degenerate with the
electrovalent ground state. It is consistent, therefore,
with both superexchange and semicovalent exchange.

If one compares the Curie points of the oxides of
Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni, all of which have the rock-salt
structure, a similar progression of Curie temperatures is
noted, iz., MnO (122°K), FeO (198°K), CoO (291°K),
NiO (523°K). On the basis of a superexchange model
this progression can be attributed to the progressive
increase in the ionization potential of the bivalent ion.
On the basis of a semicovalent model it may be attri-
buted to a progressive decrease in the energy of the hy-
brid (d%sp®) orbitals. The high Curie point of NiO
indicates that semicovalence has a significant stabilizing
effect on Ni2t in octahedral sites of 0%~ ions. Although
there is no normal covalence in the Ni**—0*" bond,
semicovalence is possible. The apparent preferance of
Niz+ for octahedral sites in the spinel lattice' may
indeed be due to this stabilization. Further, this stabili-
zation may well explain the normal spinel structure of
Ge(Ni»)O4 and Ge(Co)Oy as contrasted with the olivine
structure of Ge(Mg,)Os. Since Mg*, Co**, and Ni**
have comparable ionic radii, this difference in crystal
structure cannot be understood from any previous

model.

 

1 {. Bizette, J. phys. radium 12, 161 (1951).