COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Mgg_gtgg of the Sixth Meeting
Academic Year '51-°52

Pergons ?resant; S, Ho Caldwell, H» Feshbach, J. W. Forrester,
C, Lin, P. M. lMorse, and E. Relssners,

Morse reported that 2 proposal was being prepared for
a project with the AlT Force which might support the IBM equipe
ment for research. This proposal is being prepared by Verzuh
and Morse and should be acted on by the Air Force in the next
month or so. If it goes through, it will mean that the IBM equipe
ment will be supported sufficiently so that research using the
equipment will not require transfer of funds.

Morse also reported that, in view of the fact that
Kopal was not awarded a raise in rank, 1V appeared likely that the
course in Numerical Analysis woula not be taught next year unless
someone else was found to teach it. Three solutions appeared pos-
sibles (1)that someone on the faculty already be found who would
be interested in teaching and workirg in this flelds (2) that some-
one already in one of the projects be found to teach the course for
a year or so until we find a permanent solutions (3) thatl we find
someone from outside who could De appointed to Geach this course and
who eventually could build up work at M.I.T. in thils field. All
three possibilities were dlscussed by the Committee. It was sug-
gested that Professor Hildebrand be approached GO see whether he
would be interested in teaching the course. Also Dr. Ho Re Eo
Grosch be approached to see whether he would be interested in
teaching such a coursa. on the bagsis of these reactions, the
Committes can then discuss further actieon at 1its next meeting.
Morse mentioned that Dr. Forman acton, now at the Bureau of Stan-
dards Institute for Numerical Analysis, was recommentied as a good
teacher interested in this f£4eld, wio might be considered under
possibility (3)-

_ The next meeting of the Committee will be cn Wednesday,
March 5, at 2 p.Mo

e ) W
3 N\ W
\‘ \ b\ﬂ_k‘
Philtep- M. Morse, ———
Shalrman

2-13=52