June 9, 1958

Dr, M, A, Shader

Manager of I.B.M. University Program
International Business Machines Corporation
590 Madison Avenue

New York 22, New York

Dear Dr. Shaders

I am enclosing several lists giving the recommendations
for the I.B.M. Research Appointments of the M.I.T., Computation
Center for the 1958-59 academic year. The first 1list gives the
names of those research assistants recommended from M.I.T. followed
by the initial and terminal dates of the appointment, the period,
and the recommended stipend. The first-term portion of the funds
representing one-half of each amount (exeept that of Mr. Honeck,
where all of the amount is first-term) should be sent to President
Killian or to the Treasurer's Office at M.I,T., whichever you prefer.
We have notified each department of our recommendations., If you should
wish to write to the appointees, we enclose a second 1list of the
"addresses for reply" of those we have appointed,

The third list, which is similar to the first 1list, glves
details for the recommendations for appointments from the cooperating
colleges, In each case we listed the name of the institution, the
name of the sident, the recommended assistant or assoclate, the
initial and terminal dates, the period, and the recommended aﬁipend
and travel allowance., One-half of each amount should be sent to the
respective institutions as the firsteterm portion (except that of
Mr. Kovaleveky at Yale, where all of the amount is first-term). We
have notified the applicantas of their appointments as well as the
corresponding Institutional Representatives. If you should wish to
write directly to the appointees, a fourth list consisting of the
"addresses for reply" is included.

I hope these lists give you the information you meed, If
I can be of any further assistance please write or call me.

Sincerely,
/
FPJC:RM F. J. Corbato
Enclosures Assistant to the Director
ce: Dr. R, N. Johanson I.B.M. Research Appointment Program

/Dl‘o C. FO Floe
Prof. P. M. Morse
Dre Fo. M. Verzuh