— SE

   

tn pe

- Se a £81 Br, Flee, trod, an prof. &. Brown, Dr, Foster, Mr, Ane id innon

 

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
ke, deverance, Mr, Little and Mr, Boyd.

~~ ” 3 ad “ ~

| : 2 QL aber LY

Me, Frank M, Verzuh
Room 7-306
M.1.T.

Re: Office of Statistical Services

 

The purpose of this memorandum is to clarify the
functions of the Office of Statistical Services and the rela-
tionships between this office and other agencies at the
Institute.

The primary responsibility of the Office of Statis-
tical Services is to furnish its services to the administra-
tive offices, the teaching departments and the research pro-
jects, As & service unit, it is not expected to carry on
teaching activities or to assume the project supervision of
sponsored research, Teaching responsibilities may be
accepted by the Director of the Office but these responsi-
bilities will be his personally and not that of the Office itself.
The .LC. research project now supervised by the Office
will be completed but further projects of this type will not
be undertaken. The Office will of course continue to provide
services to the I' I,C, research projects throughout the
Institute where the responsibility for project supervision is
not that of the Office of Statistical Services, l.ikewise in
teaching, the use of the machines of the Office will be sched
uled for teaching purposes when this is possible, but again
the responsibility for courses in computational methods and
similar courses will not se that of the Office.

 

Hereafter the Director of the Office of Statistical
Services will serve only as an advisor to the Instrumenta-
tion Laboratory with respect to the Rockefeller Differential
Analyzer, The Instrumeatation Laboratery will have com~
plete jurisdiction over this machine, being responsible for
its personnel, equipment, space requirements, budget and
fiscal administration, The Analyzer will continue to be
available for work required by other laboratories or by
departments for thesis work or other types of work but
arrangements for its use and for the payments required in
return should be made with the Instrumentation Laboratory.
Accounting procedures and billing methods will be subject
to approval by the D.1.C, Fiscal Office. The Analyzer will
be under the complete management of the Instrumentation
i.aboratory,


FMV “d= December 23, 1952

The Committee on Machine Methods of Computation will
be consulted by the Director of the Office of Statistical Ser
vices on the advisability of acquiring new equipment and on
technical problems concerning types of computation which can
and should be performed. The Director will investigate appro-
priate methods of computation suggested by the Committee,

The Accounting Officer of the Institute, John A, Little will
be the administrative officer to whom the Director of the Office
of Statistical Services will report directly, Mr, Little will be
responsible for final approvals on the purchase and leasing of
new equipment, space changes, operating budgets and rentals as
well as rates for the services of the Office, When new machines
are needed to carry on special services for sponsored research
projects, the rental expense of these machines shail be under-
written by the project and such arrangements will be subject to
the approval of the Director of the I.1.C. Mr, Little will exe-
cute machine rental constracts in all cases, including those pro-
viding for underwriting by sponsored research projects,

A statement on the costs of the services and procedures
related thereto is attached to this memorandum,

Yours sincerely,

wed

JISme
Enclosure


rr WE = TR he) SE Aare : EXERC Surg 1 BERRY TT Ter a CMSA TREE AY Ee
ToD" fn 2 “ ‘3 + BEE a NE RS] &i OT TA oe oe Fw Ey AN Satie A ed SES Ee TX =
R - . s a CEgey TT WEE =e Elect ee Ry RN AT SRR WE § = p, A ROS vgs Ae ot Re i me
TARA = ET URS a Ba I oe EL ae x At ELAR RE 5 BST Rem, EA RE pl es oe! Ja SRA Tag 1
he : -~ PTT BY Ln cea. BR rT A

RR ETS fe en

 

OFFICE OF THE TREASURER MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

  

The costs of the services of this office will be
recovered as follows:

1. Direct labor will be charged at cost

Direct materials will be charged at cost

3. TES SONAR IF SEIN HERING WEEE SNS Te

underwriters

4, The rental of regular machines will be charged to
Adrainistrative Expense,

5, Overbead expense including cupervision end adminis

trative expense will be re by machine use
charges, Underwriters of special machines will be
charged a monthly overhead rate in proportion to their
underwriting.

6. The use of special machines by others then the under
writers thereof will be charged at a rate to cover rentals
and overhead with full credit going to the underwriters,

The rental cost of machines carried as Institute
sdwinistrative 7 xpense will not be locluded in the use charges
for such machines, Underwriters of special machines will be
billed monthly for rental costs,

Special machines will be rented only in accordance
with written agreements and periodic resorts will be furnished
to the Director of the 0,10, on the use of special machines by
their underwriters, [riovities as to the use of such machines
will of course apply to thelr underwriters,

4 schedule of charges will be furnished by Mr, Little
and ail billings and credits will be made during the month
succeeding the work performed,


