A man who claims to be able to solve all problems by a system, (or pro-
gram, or algorithm), is fooling himself. If he "is that smart, he does guess-
work or perhaps uses divine inspiration, but he has no system: This nonexis-
tence of a universal algorithm is a genuine mathematical result ascribed to
GYdel, Post, and Turing (1933-6 A.D.), which probably ranks with the work of
Aristotle (330 B.C.) on logic. (The reader is spared an exact formulation here
by virtue of the stupefying ugliness of the symbols and page-layout required in
symbolic logic, but the more venturesome readers might wish to comnsult S. Kleene,
Metamathematics).

We shall consider a more specialized technical situation, due to Turing,
illustrating the limitation on machines. Suppose we have various decks of (read-
able) input cards that will be fed into a machine to read and compute (during and
after reading). A human programmer, we hope, can usually look at the deck and
tell if the deck will produce an error stop. But the human can have no system,
or, in other words, a machine can not do his work.

~ Let us prove no machine program can examine an arbitrary '"running deck' and
decide in a finite number of steps if the running deck ever produces an error
stop. Suppose such a program exists, (call it P). It is to be loaded followed
by an arbitrary running deck D to be tested. The combination is written (p,D).
Use the following standard form: While seemingly examining a running deck D, let
P actually "consider" D followed by D, written (D,D) and let P announce the re-

sult of running (D,D) by '"calling itself a liar" as follows:

 

 

1., If (D,D) will produce an error stop then (P,D) announces this fact by
performing a legitimate operation such as a ''print'.

2. If (D,D) will produce no error stop then (P,D), announces this fact by
performing an error stop.

Then we see if P exists (P,P) can produce no result without a contradiction.
Hence the algorithm P does not exist. (See illustration opposite page.)

In the same way, we can feed the English dictionary and rules of grammar in-
to a machine but no program can exist for telling whether a group of words has
"meaning', no matter how carefully we define meaning in terms of machine-like rules.

On the othé;_hand, literal translation of languages is not only possible but has
been done at least five years ago.

 

Thus for a long time machines will need constant human guidance, in return
for their service, preferable of the type that can be achieved best at a university
with its broad range of interests and talents.

% % % % %

NEWS

The publication of the Bulletin An extention of our teaching assign-
will resume in September. At this ments includes a section of our begin-
time the intentions are to carry the ning programming class in the first ses-
same general format into the next ac- sion of summer school (10:00 - 12:00,
ademic year. We would appreciate fur- five days a week). Also a reminder that
ther comments on how we might serve with the new catalogue our courses will
the wide variety of subscribers. Our in general have different course numbers.

mailing list at present includes 83
on campus, 224 in the state, and 84
outside the state.