3

be financed indireetly by contributions from each project which
uses 1t, if this were conslidered to be the most desirable way of
keeping it going. At present, however, support by contributions
from established research projects can support only about a third
of the 100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the most
fruitful research of all the unknown results which are sure to
come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together with
the economist, vpsychologist or sociologist on the faculty of one
of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with only a
"gleam 1n his eye".

Possible Initial Directions for Investigation

As indicated, we cannot write down in any detail the
directions which this research effort will take, as the various
teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immediate interest and which, in addition,
should provide hints as to still more important applications.

A. One of these is the deeper investigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 74 is too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines
are now programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, a few programs have
been devised to make the machine obey the rules of Boolean logice
and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make
the machine play chess or checkers, in other wordas to obey the
logic of a game. Different sclences and branches of learning
have Their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetlcs each have patterns of thought which do not exactly
duplicate those of physics. Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which corres-
pond mcre closely to these other patterns. With a machine of the
flexibllity and storage capacity of the 704, such research 1s
worth whlile. It will have to be tackled, at the beginning, by
teamg of experts in the field of interest, together with mathe-
matical logicians who know machine oper ation.

B. Another general llne of attack i1s in the field of
the storage and rapid aceess to information, such as is needed in
. the problems of language translation and historical research, for
example. Several schemes of 3od1ng of information, so that it can
be found quickly and eazily, have been devised on paper, but the
"pugs™ in such schemes will become apparent only when masses of
information, of the order of several hundred thousand items, are

to be ordered and sorted out. The new installation at the Compu-
tatlon Center will have & storage e&)eoﬂty of this size. Some of
the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed, by
memwbers of the C)ﬂfwr gtaff working with persons familiar with the
information and tis uses. ¥or example, a project in machine
translation has alr dy beery set up under the directbn of Professor

A
Locke of the lLanguage Leu<;Ju,nT As 1T develops, 1t will need the
help of machine programming-speclalists and will need the use of a
machine to test its iaeas. ?be ctranslation projeet is already
supported by the Rockefeller Folundation, but parallel work by the
Computation Center on techniques for rapid access to large-quantity