THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA , Consolidated Office

University of North Carolina in cHAPEL HILL y North Carolina State College of Agriculture and Engineering in RALEIGH y+ The Woman's College in GREENSBORO

 

May 19, 1959 CHAPEL HILL

Professor Philip M. Morse, Director
Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

I appreciate your interest, in the midst of what I know is a very
busy schedule, in continuing to build up communication between
university computation center leadership. I feel strongly that

there are at least two areas in which a strong stand taken by leaders
of various university computation centers around the country might
aid all of us.

The first of these is in the area of just what should a university
curriculum relative to computers consist of? I have strong feelings
myself as to standards of what is to be taught, but I particularly feel
that something formal needs to be done so that interested persons like
myself could point to some sort of national study group or committee
as a guide when proposing local changes. My experience at the
University of Michigan was that the conservatism of university
faculties will prevent any growth of even high-caliber course work

in this area, unless outside help can be drawn on. A conference or
study committee in this area, sponsored by the National Science
Foundation, as to what sort of curriculum is needed in the area of
computer-oriented mathematics and surrounding fields, could mean
an immense amount to persons breaking their heads against adamant
university mathematics departments and university administrations.
(I do not mean to apply that I find such a situation here; in general, the
atmosphere is a very open-minded one; but Chapel Hill, because of
circumstance, may be an exception, and even so an external study
that could be drawn upon would be very useful.)

The second area, of course, is a discussion of the needs for equipment
and methods of supporting continuing research and teaching. Again,


Professor Philip M. Morse

Page Two May 19, 1959

 

the usual response of a university administration is that, as
long as a University Computation Center (with its director) is willing
to prostitute itself to get money to support his salary and its
operation, they don't mind at all whether or not he teaches members
of its staff, its graduate students, etc., all sorts of information
through short courses not permitted in the catalog, etc.

Some of us have been lucky enough to evade some or all of these
major problems, but many university users are, I know, feeling
utterly hopeless in trying to continue a fight where there is no help at all
to draw upon. Any meetings which could help in these two areas

should certainly be given all our support, whether in connection with
other meetings or not.

I myself will be unable to attend the IBM conference in June since I
have not been invited, but I will be at the ICIP meeting in Paris, the
British Computer Society meeting in Cambridge, and the ACM meeting,
where I hope some of us from universities can continue the discussion
of these problems. Meanwhile, I would be very pleased to work with
you on either of the above ideas, or if they turn out to be too difficult,
any other ways of continuing communication among all of us. The

pace is so fast, I find, that I need continuing chances to draw upon
other people with the same problems. Useless, unplanned meetings,

of course, I am certainly heartily opposed to!

I want to thank you personally for your suggesting my name to

Dr. Thorndyke Saville for his study at the University of Florida. The
trip proved very worthwhile to me personally (and I hope to them as
well) in that it brought home, among other things, the two problems
noted above as they affect Florida. You may guess that what I learned
there caused me to think of the two problems stated above!

Sincerely yours,

2). ann JI

John W. Carr, III, Director
Research Computation Center

cc: Dr. Arthur Grad
National Science Foundation


