COMMITTEE ON MACHINZ METHODS OF COMPUTATION

utes of the fth Meet
Academic Year t151-152

Persons Present: C. W, Adams, S. H. Caldwell, H. Feshbach,
BE. R, Gillilané¢, C., Lin, P, M. Morse,
H, M, Paynter and E. Helssner

The majority of the meeting was spent in discussing prob-
lems in Chemical Engineering with Professor Gilliland, and in Civil
Engineering with Professor Paynter. It was the opinion of the co:
mittee that there are considerable possibilities in problems in
Chemical Engineering for utilization of machines. It was suggcested
to Professor Gilliland that he and some of the other members of the
faculty in his department could avail themselves of the opportunity
to attend seminars in this subject, or to meet the project super-
visors for various machines. In particular, it was pointed out
that there was an opportunity for the training of graduate students
primarily in Chemical zngineering, but secondarily in the use of
machines to solve their problems. Professor Gilliland was going to
%g?siderkthe possibility of interesting some graduate students in

s work.

Professor Paynter was aware of the p0351bilitles of
machines, but was interested in means whereby he could jet to use
the machines here at the Institute. Mr, Adams made arrangements
for him to visit Whirlwind and an invitation was extended to Pro-
fessor Paynter to attend the seminzrs in machine methods.

it was reported by Reissner that Mr. Handy was resigning
from his assistantship. He was not sure whether another graduzte
student could be found to qualify to take over this position for
the second term. Morse reported that Miss Altman was shifting from
an assistantship in Machine Computation to &n assistantship in
Cosmic Rays, and that there might be an alternative candidate for
the second term.

The times for possible committee meetings for next
semester were discussed. It appears that the hour from 2 - 3 on
Wednesday is preferred by most, although an alternative would be
from 3 « 4 on Tuesday. Final decision on this will have to wait a
determination of the rest of the schedule for second term.

It was suggested that we might try consoliaatin
seminar in machine metnods with the seminar begun by the ﬁhlxlwlnd
group., Mr. Adams was consulted about this and he indicated that
this might be‘desirable, and that he would consult with others in
Whirlwind to determine possible objections. If the objections do