(slightly under 500,000 words in Latin) will be stored on magnetic
tapes so that many kinds of questions may be propounded to this
'‘memory', Properly interrogated, the machine will print a com-
plete alphabetical listing of each word with its immediate context.
What is more, questions of syntax, of rhetorical structure, of
meaning itself can be swiftly and directly raised, if the project
has been duly programmed. Duplicate tapes can be made available
to interested scholars at cost. The advances in knowledge possible,
once the magnetic memory is put to use will be remarkable. With
uncanny speed the computer will search the entire length of the
Institutes on any point within its grasp raised by the researcher,

III

Although special syntactic and other questions, as has been
suggested, may be propounded to the resultant tape, the primary
and general goal of the project is a printed concordance. Concor-
dances to Latin works vary tremendously in scope and format.

The slightest form is that of an index verborum, wherein the chief
words are listed with strings of location numbers, but no context.
Far more useful for the scholar and student, but much more com-
plicated and costly to produce by conventional methods, is the true
concordance, wherein each occurrence of each word is printed
with its context, the four or five neighboring words.

The electronic computer is ideally suited for the production
of such a concordance, Once the entire text has been encarded and
transferred to magnetic tape, the computer can be programmed
to search each word alphabetically and print it with its immediate
context in proper order. Not only can such a print-out be made on
conventional paper; duplicating masters can also be made directly
for multilith or other reproduction. Thus, with a minimum of in-
termediate steps--hence fewer occasions for error--a very useful
(if slightly inelegant) concordance can be compiled.

Normally, when such a project is initiated, considerable ef-
fort must be put into pilot efforts and programming studies. But
with present knowledge gained from both academic applications and
varied business uses, it is possible to frame a plan utilizing one of
the set procedures for sorting offered by the manufactorer of the
computer to be employed. Certain conventional symbols will have