THE UNIVERSITY OF CHTEAGO
CHICAGO 37 ILLINOIS

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS

2 January 1957

Dr. Philip M. Morse

Department of Physics

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Phil:

Thank you very much for your extremely quick reply, and
for the additional ten hours of free time, On the strength of this,
Mr. Merryman will very shortly return to M.I.T. to continue
testing and to compute some exchange integrals.

I did understand that Whirlwind would be retired and that
you would go on to IBM 704, The development of the exchange integrals
program on Whirlwind went very slowly, which we regret, but the
program appears now at last to be operable, though checking and
improvements are still needed. Thus computations of particular
integral values should be relatively routine, and barring unforeseen
difficulties I think it is realistic to expect that the integral values
we need could be run through relatively soon, before Whirlwind is
retired. As soon as feasible, we plan to prepare an exchange
integrals program for another machine, but this is expected to take
a year or two, espeetely in view of the fact that radical improve -
ments on the present program can and should be made. (We feel it
would be pretty much a waste of effort to merely recode the present
program for another machine, since this recoding would be more
than a trivial operation.) But since for our NSF program we very
badly need values of exchange integrals now, it seems worth while
to usethe Whirlwind code now, while we can, for the computation of a
number of them. We think we need a minimum of 60 hours for this,
but this depends on how long it takes per integral, which at present
looks like about 2 minutes on the average, but we hope it may go
faster.

 

With the foregoing background (of course there are many
further details), may I ask the following questions?


Iino MM Van 8
1p M. Morse page 2 2 January 1957

 

a
) \
 —
oN
oi
C3
O
Q
nn
DO
£5

2 : € cost of the time used can be provided; would
it conflict with other needs if we eould and did use 32 hours, or 60
hours, by June?

(2) Ihave an ONR contract, and they have, I think, a benevolent
interest in our computations. Would there be any objections on your

part, andyf I should see if they would provide for free time for us on

Whirlwind ?

(3) Looking ahead, de you have an opinion as to whether we
could if necessary later get time from Project Lincoln, where T
understand Whirlwind will go? Of course, as mentioned above, we
plan as soon as feasible to develop a new and better program.

(4) If we go ahead with buying time from Whirlwind, do we
need some kind of formal business arrangement?

Many thanks again for your kindness.
Sincerely,
eles TLL Y.
\ R. S. Mulliken

RSM:hl
ce: J. C, Slater

 

Toms do on Soh OX CASA ad pev—aey,


