S5555
£
trs
2 3

-
»wh
.

SoSte
5 <
Sttt T
}.21:‘ Lt ; -v: <

-

— .
SRS,
At -
b
g

DS
Aot
'tgxf

=

syt

2,

e s

 

 

{

There remains the problem of solving equatxon {‘2) and
substituting the value of Q thus obtained in equation (7).
As indicated,! prolate spheroidal coordinates are convgnxeqtly
used. These coordinates are defined relative to cylindrical

coordinates as follows:

Ll (8)

 

A 2 =g (9)
— —— —=a .
1—n’+n

£ = constant: equation of a prolate sphqroid. . |
constant: equation of a hyperboloid of revolution of two

" —

sheets.
r = a(g? — 12 (1 — )2 (10)
o = aE"] (11)

¢ and n are dimensionless quantities somewhat ana.logous to
angles; a represents the semifocal length of the 1sot.herm.s
and the flow surfaces. The isotherms are described in this
svstem by the equation § = constant. The lines of flow lie
‘1 the surfaces described by the equation n = constant.
Equation (2) is a first-degree differential equation; its
solution involves a single integration, hence one arbitrary

constant. Its solution in prolate spheroidal coordinates is

constant
e 12
C=@—1: @ - m7 2

Along an isotherm §{ = constant, Q is seen to depend on 7.
Although the temperature is constant in an isotherm, the
amount of heat per unit area flowing across an isotherm varies
along the isotherm. Isotherms crowd together where they
are strongly curved; here the temperature gradient 1s largest,
and the amount of heat flowing across per unit area is also
greatest.

The element of area dA of an isotherm is given in prolate
spheroidal coordinates by

dA = 2maX(§? — 1)"/x(§ — n*)"/2dn (13)
A line element of the lines of flow is given by

e (e

IS (82 — 1) (14)

Substituting equations (12), (13), and (14) into equation (7)
gives

Thermal Conductivity:

. Ceramic Society—Adams
4 Journal of The American

Vol. 37, No. 2

dE
fii 2%
a./e‘ £2 — ) L 2
k=~ g.afdn AT e

n varies from —1 10 +1 over an entire isotherm, hence,
Fdn = 2 (16)

The numerator of equation (15) should be integrated between
the two points where the temperature 1S measured.

 

di =Ll g
f =
¢ gr:l"‘/?l"g+1|¢ {0)
In i——; i / P
¢
R s SR AT (18)

The measurements of temperature are usually made on the
minor axis of the prolate spheroid; here n = 0, hence from

equation (10)

 

r = a($? — 1)'/2 (19)
2)1/2
s +a’—)— (20)

Substituting equation (20) into equation (18) gives

li(a2 + 722 —a (a® + r?)"2 + a]
In : p

k= (@ +r0)/2+a (a®+ r?)'/: —a
T 8ra AT
(21)

r. = distance of point ¢ from major axis of prolate spheroid.
re = distance of point f from major axis of prolate spheroid.

 

In [L“” +r)—a @+rd"+e
@+ )"+ a (a*+ 7 /s _ g
8ra
body factor for a prolate spheroidal apparatus. Equation
(21) can be expressed as follows: Thermal conductivity
equals body factor times power divided by temperature drop.

})
= — — 2(
k B A7 (22)

The term 1s the

B = body factor.

ll, Prolate Spheroidal

Envelope Method

Data for Al.Os, BeO, MgO, ThO;, and ZrO,

by MILTON ADAMS

An absolute method of determining the thermal
conductivity of refractory materials is described.
This investigation confines itself to the steady
state, i.e., where the temperature at any given
point in the material is independent of time. The
variation of conductivity with temperature is
shown for alumina, magnesia, zirconia, beryllia
thoria, and insulating firebrick B & W K-28. Thé
results of previous studies are compared with
those of this investigation.

l. Introduction

ASI_MPLE expression for the flow of heat by conduction
1S rate equals driving force divided by resistance. 11l
this fundamental expression the rate is, of course, the
rate of heat flow; the driving force is the temperature drop
across the material, since an inequality of temperature i
necessary for heat flow; and the resistance term embraces
the factors of surface area and heat-flow path length, and also

in 5 the ' :
cludes the proportionality factor k, which denotes the ther-
mal conductivity.

T 000

February 1954 (Part II)

This investigation concerns itself with the conduction of
heat, and confines itself to the steady state, i.e., where the
temperature at any given point in the material is independent
of time. Thus, the temperature gradient and heat-flow rate
are also independent of time.

The purpose of this research was to devise an absolute
method of determining the thermal conductivities of pure re-
fractory oxides. When one considers the need of stable re-
fractory materials of construction for piles, gas turbines, and
other high-temperature devices, the importance of a knowl-
edge of the thermal conductivities of the pure oxide refrac-
tories becomes self-evident.

Of the four usual test-specimen shapes employed in the de-
termination of thermal conductivity, only the hollow sphere
readily permits unidirectional heat flow. The other three
(plate, rod, and hollow cylinder) require some sort of guarding
to insure unidirectional heat flow. To eliminate experimental
limitations of temperature measurement and heater-element
construction with the hollow sphere, a hollow prolate sphe-
roid was used for this work. To insure unidirectional heat
flow, the heater element or core must be so constructed as to
generate heat uniformly per unit length along the axis of ro-
tation, and the specimen must be so designed and shaped that
its inner and outer surfaces are confocal with the surface of
the core.

Loeb! has developed a general expression for the thermal
conductivity of any specimen whose isothermals can be de-
scribed by one coordinate of some orthogonal coordinate sys-
tem, the lines of flow being described by one of the other or-
thogonal coordinates. The special applications of this gen-
eral equation to plates, cylinders, spheres, and ellipsoids are
given, with special emphasis on the case of prolate spheroids.

The general thermal conductivity equation can be ex-
pressed as thermal conductivity equals body factor times power
divided by temperature drop. In this expression thermal
conductivity is in c.g.s. units of calories per second, per
square centimeter, per degree centigrade drop through a cen-
timeter: the body factor is a constant for a specific specimen
including surface area and heat-flow path-length considera-
tions in addition to a conversion factor of watts to calories
per second; the power is in watts; and the temperature drop
is in degrees centigrade. The thermal conductivity expres-
sion for prolate spheroids derived from the fundamental equa-
tion of heat conduction was given as equations (21) and (22)
in Part IT of this series (see opposite page).

II. Previous Investigations

An extensive search of the literature reveals that few data
have been published on the thermal conductivity of pure re-
fractory oxides. Most investigations have been conducted
on commercial-type refractories. Usually investigators did
not define their samples adequately as to porosity, chemical
composition, or structure. A large number of the tests were
based on some linear-flow method or comparative method.
Some used radial flow in a cylinder. A few employed
radial flow in a sphere, which is an envelope type of test.
The unit designed for this investigation is also of the envelope
type. The wide divergence of absolute values may be due to
the nonmaintenance of the theoretical heat-flow pattern em-
ployed in the conductivity alculations. Reasonable agree-
ment exists on relative values.

Thermal conductivity may be determined under steady-
state conditions or under unsteady-state conditions. Where
steady-state conditions exist, the heat-flow rate is constant or
independent of time. Therefore, the temperature gradient
and the temperature within the material at any given point

1 A. L. Loeb, “Theory of Envelope Type of Thermal Conduc-
tivity Tests,” J. Appl. Phys., 22, 282-85 (1951).

T hermal Conductivity, [11 75

are independent of time. In this case, the heat-transfer
rate depends primarily on that property of the material which
is defined as thermal conductivity. The present study is
limited to the steady state. Where unsteady-state conditions
prevail, the rate of heat flow is changing with time as are the
temperature gradient and temperature. Here, the heat-
transfer rate depends on that property of the material known
as the thermal diffusivity. It is the ratio of the thermal con-
ductivity of the material to the product of the density and
specific heat of the material.

(1) Unsteady State

Gerdien? reports conductivity values for alumina obtained
by Jakob and Hahnlein by a comparative diffusivity method.
Their standard was ‘‘Marquardtmasse’’ (Marquardt porce-
lain). Crucible specimens filled with tin were used. The
standard crucible and the sample crucible were heated and
the time required to melt the tin in each crucible was noted.
Values obtained range from 0.0466 at room temperature to
0.0127 at 900°C. These values are in c.g.s. units, as are all
conductivity values that appear in this paper.

Fitzsimmons® has determined the thermal diffusivity of
some refractory oxides in the range 400° to 750°C. In
his method he subjected a preheated specimen (long solid
cylinder) to a sudden change by immersion in a stirred lead
bath and noted the change of temperature with time at the
center of the specimen. His values of diffusivity in square
centimeters per second are: for alumina, 0.023 at 400°C. to
0.015 at 700°C.: for magnesia, 0.032 at 400°C. to 0.020 at
750°C.: and for zirconia, 0.0060 at 400°C. to 0.0053 at 750°C.
He has made the assumption that the surface temperature of
the specimen changes instantaneously. This would lead to
increasing deviations from absolute values for increasing
conductivities.

(2) Steady State

Scholest has obtained low-temperature values for beryllia
with an apparatus similar to that of Knapp’s.® His standard
was soft copper. His values for beryllia are 0.417 at 53:.C:to
0.328 at 134°C. He placed his thermocouples in the stand-
ard and extrapolated to determine the temperature drop in
the sample. This was a possible source of error.

Whittemore® gives values determined by G. B. Wilkes of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in an apparatus
similar to that described in A.S.T.M. Designation C 201-47.
The relative conductivity values of three refractory oxides are
magnesia 18, alumina 17, and stabilized zirconia 6 at about
1100°C. These measurements were made on commercial-
type refractory oxides of much higher porosity than those
prepared in this laboratory.

(3) Other

Eucken? has determined the thermal conductivity of mag-
nesia and alumina from commercial-type brick. He has
devised equations relating porosity, glassy-phase composition,

2 H. Gerdien, ‘“‘Aluminiumoxyd als hochfeuerfester Werk-
stoff”” (Aluminum Oxide as a Highly Refractory Material), Z.
Elektrochem., 39 [1] 13-20 (1933).

3 E. S. Fitzsimmons, ‘‘Thermal Diffusivity of Refractory
Oxides,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 [11 | 327-32 (1950).

+ W. A. Scholes, “Thermal Conductivity of Bodies of High BeO
Content,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 (4] 111-17 (1950).

s W. J. Knapp, “Thermal Conductivity of Nonmetallic Single
Crystals,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 26 [2] 48-55 (1943).

6 O. J. Whittemore, Jr., “Properties and Uses of Pure Oxide
Heavy Refractories,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 32 [2] 48-53 (1949).

7 A Eucken, ‘“Wirmeleitfihigkeit keramischer feuerfester
Stoffe: Berechnung aus der Wirmeleitfihigkeit der Bestand-
teile”” (Thermal Conductivity of Ceramic Refractory Materials;
Calculation from Thermal Conductivity of Constituents),
Forsch. Gebiete Ingenieurw., B3, Forschungsheft No. 353, 16
pp. (1932); Ceram. Abstr., 11 [11] 576 (1932); 12 [6] 231 (1933).