o=

cperation to €xXperimental ang theoretical problems, thus appreclably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and social Sclences and in éngineering.

It 1is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central r'ésearch group. The group’s work will,
In part, provide dn expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and Programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical loglic and methods of data processing which
wWill be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.,

Most of the Senior staff fop Such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute, Part of 1t 1is the group which
developed Whirlwing I programming: others are in various departments
of the Institute, From time to time, some of the staff of the
Participating colleges would Join it for 3 Semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full-time at the Center,

IBM and the Institute will contribute about g half million
dollars g year to provide the equipnment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. Ve believe that a contribution of
about 100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will énergize and take the lead in the re-
Search carried on at the Computation Center by Students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges., Ve list later in this
proposal some of the 8pecific research Projects we are preparad to
start on. Other Projects will develop naturally from these ang
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center,

The project would not start at rfull 8trength. The 704 wil)
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytiec
work can be started before the machine is installed, The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be Supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. Ve eStimate that a totaj budget of $60,000 would
Suffice for the next academic year, g90,000 for 1957-58 ang 3100, 000
for 1958-59. Details are glven later in this pProposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the pProgram should bpe re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

S e ——————es

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial sSupport ;
from both dgeéticies, an equal share from each. We believe the work |
can be divided so “hat “eharate contracts ean be written. Some of L
the proposed taske would be flffar:rt, though some of the broader
Yields of investig ticn oulg overlap. Ue would hope that we could |