Foe Prom the News Service i
~~. Mess. Institute of Technology
Cambridge 3% Massachusetts &]

More then one rundred seientiste and engineers from lew Englend

colleges will take the first step toward using the facilities of
the new 1. T.. Computation center at a / special two-week program

opening at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on Lugust 20,

i “They WILY learn the principles of preparing problems to be |
solved by a modern. high-speed computing. machine. . Their. study wil)
be in preperation for thelr use of the IBM type 70h Date. Process-

5 ing Machine, a. large electronic computer, which will be installed

at M. I.7. later this year, : 4,

The program will mark the opening of a cooperative venture
between LOM, M.I. Tes end © other New Fngland colleges to increase
the numbers of scientists and engineers qualified to use modern
computing mechines, and to learn more about their application to
research problems in many fields. i:
Under special arrangements with the International Business
Machines Copporation, the type 70h computer will be operated at
‘MM. T, 7. bo solve problems ‘brought by research workers in & wide
veriety of fields et the participating New Fngland colleges. Those
ettending the program beginning on August 20, according to Pro=
fessor Philip M, Morse of n.I.T who directs the Computation
Center, will be those who expect to use the machine as soon 88 it
1e syvaileble early in 1957.

The two-week program will be given by nine members of the

M.T.T, staff, two representatives of Internetional Business

Machines Corporation, and one faculty member from a participating

(more)


Computation Conter = M.T.Be © 1 wila pi ndny al | Ba

eollegs, Professor John MoCarthy of the ed Department at
Dartmouth College. In charge of the program, ‘in adaision to Pro-
fessor Morse, ‘are Dr. Deen ¥. Ardent Professor of Rlectrical Fngi=
neering, and. Dr. Frank M. Versuh, Director of Statistical Ser= :
vices, both at MI. poo ios i i :

During the Svo-ueel period of the course all its ‘members will
visit International Business Machines headquarters in ‘Poughkeepsie,
New York to see & Type 20 computer in operation and to duspest
production facilities there, |

1a adattion to physicists and engineers, teachers and graduate
‘students in econenics, astronomy, business administration, and
mathematics will attend the progrem at M.I.T. The following col=
leges and universities a in addition to MeI.Ty = will send representa-
tives: Boston College, Bowdoin College, Brandeis University, Brown
University, University of Connecticut, Dartmouth College, Harvard
University, Mr. Holyoke College, University of New Rampehire,
Northeastern University, University of Rhode Island, Tufts Univer-
sity, University of Vermont, Wellesley Golleze, Wesleyen University,
‘Williams College, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and Yale Univer=
gity. | | |

With a staff of more than 30 people, the M.I.T. Center will be
the largest end most versatile data processing facility yet made
available primarily for education and basic research. IBM not only
will install the machine =~ in special space in M.I.T.'s new Karl
Taylor Compton Laboratory = but willl contribute the cost of main=-
taining and operating 1t.

(more)


Jomstition Senter on Fe TEE Sh Sole ign

‘Students an nd teachers from throughout New England will bring

© to it their problems which require high-speed computation faeill-

 

 

ties. The: rields for which the computer is expected to find ‘use

are "operations resesroh, " the application of new data processing i

methods to complex manufacturing and distribution problems; aero-
dynamics, where computations will lead to a better understanding |
of shock waves at ‘trensonie and ‘supersonic speed; ‘meteorology,
where rapid assimilation of weather date can lead to better fore= |
castings atomic researeh, where caleulations can throw new light
on sub-atomic particles; and solid state physics, tn which efforts
are being made So ok Hote OFF Eeat ‘obmpiacats Hor stupbtlng.

-30-


