Re aT -’ ro RET TN NTN Cr Nr RR a] Tan 2 - Cw eR PT TRE

TR N . v ~ gy > ~ " TE 3
rs I B " TT ATT Easy BEAR bande - lla " oo ee i wid i Te Bot’ or eras i SN —_ = Or -
ct TT eC RE + a I TL Ba A TIN i SE REIN. Be eRe TOY ns LOREEN ARE RE ee, © LE

 

COMPUTATION CENTER

MASSACHUSETTS - INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

CAMBRIDGE 3.9 MASSACHUSETTS

August 25, 1961

Professor Warren B, Cheston
School of Physics
University of Minnesota
Minneapolis 14, Minnesota

Dear Professor Cheston:

I am taking the liberty of answering your recent letter to
0 Proiessor Morse inasmuch as he is presently on an extended trip.

It is true that an IBM 7090 will be installed at the Computation
Center this coming December or January, (We Presently have a 709) However,
this will not be a purchased machine, Rather, MIT operates the computer
for the benefit of its own faculty and students as well as the over-thirty
participating New England colleges and universities, In return, IBM supplies
the use of two shifts on the computer,

Consequently, the decision to obtain a 7090 was not as free a choice
Y as the one you are currently making, but it still has not prevented us from
drawing some conclusions of the relative merits of the 709-90 systems,

1, The relative short word lengths (36 bit words)

which on long floating-point calculations may cause

gradual degradation of accuracy;

2, The small 32K memory. I use the term "small"

here because as one's programming ability arises and

operating procedures become more sophisticated, the

32K core becomes crowded, Nevertheless, this

should not be considered too serious a defect unless

one is doing complicated programming,

The principal advantages that we see with the 7039 or 7090 are:

1, The compatibility with many similar machines which
not only allows the benefit of exchanging work with
other installations, but has the more subtle effect

of allowing undesired projects an opportunity to do
their work elsewhere,


em rn. i TF eg hse. * 3
Ce Py aE Le Ae" Wi
PR . A She » a Rr

 

| coMruTATION cEnTER

ah op ET BR INSTITUTE OF rrenn BBE
A CAMBRIDGE 39. Asa ouus TIED

2, Also, there is a me ture (i.e. well-worked 3:over):
set of Programming sys tems available,

From a personal point of view, I ‘consider this last point to. be
the most important and overriding one at this time, In particular, the
709 and 7090 machines have the quite useful and easy-to-work-with For- 5s
tran-Fap lionitor System which allows efficient and convenient utilization 3
of the computer by programmers who are not specialists in machine language. Eo
Fortran and FAP translators are’ both available and further translators
have been prepared by such groups as the University of Machigan ‘(the MAD
Translator) and others. In our own case, I would estimate that our effec-
tive utilization of the 709 has almost doubled that of the previous 704
that we had, This is primarily due to the smoothness of ‘the 709 operating
systems, We also have seen a very large ‘increase in the number of users
of our Center, which I feel also substantiate the relative ease with which
casual programmers can use the computer Sffectively. (The Center Presently
has over 500 active users in any month), 3 TE BI 3 ;

: The above considerations’ are, 1 feel , the major ones that I would.
0 make concerning the advisability of a 7090 system. I hope they are of

some assistance to you in forming your judgments, and I will be glad to
discuss any of the above topics at greater. length ® you wish,

-F. J, Corbato

y | pel hx i Associate Director

Sincerely,

 

FJC: NM
Copy to Professor Norse


