Extension of NSP G2940 | .' Page 7

Enclosure B, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers, including the possibility of eycles different
in length or kingd running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
€.g8., several single-accumilator computers with common memory,and
the behavior of a computer with multiple accummlators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a 704 by utilization of
additional drums and magnetic core banks. |

| 9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence conver-
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration. : ;

Fagcilities:

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TO4 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complements
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 4,000 |
words of storage, the usual on-1line punched card reader, alpha=-
betic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3 off-1ine
magnetic-tape-controlled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled :
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the TO4 there will be 10 auxiliary punched card .
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate -
machine rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated
by IBM. : s

The Type 704 EDFM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers avallable today. Sinee the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and .
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment. .

Personnel - Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Assoclated
with the Project: P e ~

Princigg% Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contaet with
computing problems during his eareer in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Bush differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physies at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936“ "Methods of Operations Researeh" (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, "Methods of Theoretical Physica" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance"” 1957,

and about a hundred journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further bilographic details
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project.