W———

Extension of NSP G2940 | | Page 4

ENCLOSURE B

Excerpts from Original Proposal for Funds
(modified to bring it up to date)

 

Name and Address of Institutions

 

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: |
Research on Digitel Computer Operation and‘Utilization

Investigatioen inte the patterns of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematiecal and experimental research; ineluding studies of
numerical analysis and machine programming metheds, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such speelific applications of
machine techniques to problems in secience, engineering, and ,
administration as will clarify the basic research and suggest new
points of view.

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall eof
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research - Background Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in thls eountry. IBM is contributing one of its 704 machines,
maintained and eguipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part of the new Compton
Laborato®y, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electriecal engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be ccordinated by the Institute
Machine Computation Committee.

In addition; the Center will be avallable, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated their interest in parti-
eipating and have appointed faculty members to be their Insti-
tutional Representative. These representatives will gcoordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of their
institution. IBM is providing some funds for stipends for
graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of this research.