. COMMI’H'EE 0N MACHINE METHODS or comnrion
Minutes or the Third hem
Kceaemic Year '35-'53

Persona Present: c. W. Adams, 5. H. caldwell, H. Feshbach,

J. R. Forrester; J;_A; Hrones, c. c. Lin,
P. M. Morse, E. Reisener, and W. H. Seifert.

'The subject or the discussion ﬁt this meeting was the
organization of courses in the machine computat 7" field. Forrester
indicated that there were several types of covnze, in thin fieldg
one set primarily of interest to the builders of machines. Such
courses have arisen naturally at the Institute, chiefly in the
Electrical Engineering Department, and there seems to be no problem
concerning their presentation or planning. 0n the other hand; there
‘is a growing need for courses for persons who wish to use machines.
Here a certain small amount of material on what is inside the "black
boxes" is needed, but the primary emphasis should be on the operating
characteristics and on the use of the machine. .

 

. Morse pointed out that the Mathematics Department now had
a course in the mathematics fundamental to machine calculation. There
was some discussion as to the advisability of increasing the material
on numerical computation in M351 and on perhape including a small

amount or material in M22. No definite agreement was reached on these
matters, however.

given on pages 1 and 2 or the appended memorandum from Adena. It was
agreed that the number of Electrical Engineering prenrequieitee far
this course should he kept at a minimum in order to attract etudenta
from as wide a variety of fields as possible. The rxact detailn of
3 . the material included could not at present be agree“ npen, but the
3 general scope of the material an given in Adams' outline was felt to
be correct. Hronee and Reisener and Feehbach indicated agreement
that some such course would be a useful addition”

There was not time for a general diacneeion of then
advanced profeeeional coureea fer professional users of the
or builders of machines. Though a*certain amount of discussw


directed toward this general subject. There Seemed to be general
agreement, for example, the? a one-term course on punch card equip-
ment of the sort proposed by Vbrzuh was probably desirable, though
it was not certain how much ﬂemand there was for such a course-
present. The fEeling was thaﬁ such a course would be useful toa

grezgnt and the future of the course would then depend on its gopu—
ar y. ‘

The ﬁéxu meeting of the Committee will be at 3 p.m.,

weanesday, December 3. Morse said he hoped that Professor Brown
would be present then go that the subject of courses could be con«

tinued.
Phili RMorse

Chairman
11-5~52 (Meeting)


