COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Date: February 10, 1960

Memorandum to: Dr. C. R. DeCarlo, Assistant General Manager,
Data Systems Division, IBM Corporation

From: Philip M. Morse, Director, MIT Computation Center
Sub ject: Replacement of TO4 by a 7090

Background: In June, 1957, somewhat less than three years
ago, ad‘fﬁﬁggﬁﬁgﬁhs installed at the Computation Center by IBM,
under a special agreement whereby IBM maintains the equipment,
contributes toward amortizing the additions to the Compton Laboratory
which house the Center and supports a number of research assistants
and associates who assist users of the machine, and MIT provides
the starf and operates the Center for the use of MIT and other
cooperating New England colleges and universities. The primary
purpose of the arrangement is to enable students and faculty of
these institutions to learn how to use high-speed cowputing machines
effectively, so that the next generation of scientists, engineers
and industrial executives will be able to exploit machine capabilities --
in other words, the primary purpose is to demonstrate that such
machines are as important a part of the educational equipment of a
modern college as are chemistry laboratories, for example. A
secondary purpose is to foster research in the use of computing machines,
particularly in those fields of application which have not yet been
explored or explolted fully.

To this end, priority on TO4 time has been accorded to
regular class use by courses in machine programming and applications,
to students using the machine in their thesis research and to
research projects investigating new techniques of machine use.
Particular attention has been given to making it easy for the out-
of-town users: mall service, special scheduling during visits and
sSaturday operation for those who cannot come to Cambridge during
week days.

Present Situation: This program has been outstandingly

successiuls hence e present memorandum. Class use of the TOL

has grown rapidly; at MIT there i8 now & freshwan course in machine
use, four upper-class and a number of graduate courses which use
time on the wachine, in addition to the sequence of special coding
courses which are gilven by the Center staff during each term and
summer. A number of other colleges bring some of their classes in
for one or more laboratory sessions. Class use will expand further,