ANNOUNCEMENTS

SUMMER GRANTS FOR FIELD TRAINING
IN SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY, 1958

Grants for supervised field training in social anthro-
pology and ethnology in the summer of 1958 are offered
by the Social Science Research Council to students who
have completed at least one year of graduate work in these
subjects. Stipends ranging from $175 a month for unmar-
ried students to $300 a month for students with several de-
pendents will be awarded for terms of up to 3 months.
Allowances for the student’s own travel and field expenses
may be made. Available funds will permit about 5 awards
in 1958.

Applications for grants should be filed not later than
April 1, 1958, and it is anticipated that awards can be
announced about April 15. Applications must give assur-
ance that the student will accompany an experienced anthro-
pologist into the field and work under his guidance. It is
expected that the faculty supervisor will also offer guidance
in planning the field project and in the analysis of the data
and the preparation of a report on the summer’s work. It is
anticipated that field work will be undertaken in most
cases in North or Central America or the Caribbean area,
but work in other areas will be permissible if the applicant
is able to provide from other sources for travel expenses in
excess of $300.

The complete application should include the following,
of which A, B, and C should be submitted in quadruplicate:

A. From the faculty supervisor: a letter nominating the
student, including a statement of arrangements for
the supervision of the student’s work and an ap-
praisal of his abilities and promise as a research
worker;

B. From the student: a description of plans for the field
work, the time schedule, an estimated budget (in-
cluding information about the candidate’s marital
status and dependents); a brief curriculum vitae, and
a statement of progress toward the Ph.D. degree;

C. A letter of recommendation from another graduate
instructor familiar with the student’s qualifications;

D. Transcripts of both undergraduate and graduate aca-
demic records; or a list of all courses taken in anthro-
pology and related fields, giving the instructor and
grade obtained in each.

Applications and inquiries concerning the program should
be addressed to the Social Science Research Council, 230
Park Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.

TRAVEL GRANTS: INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCES ON SLAVIC AND
EAST EUROPEAN STUDIES

As a part of the program of the Joint Committee on
Slavic Studies, of the American Council of Learned So-
cieties and the Social Science Research Council, travel grants
are offered to scholars in the humanities and social sciences

for attendance at international conferences and congresses
of specialists in Slavic and East European studies. These
awards are made possible by the grant from the Ford
Foundation reported in Items, September 1957, page 38,
and are administered by the Joint Committee’s Subcom-
mittee on Grants. It is anticipated that 4 to 6 awards may
be made in each of the years 1958 and 1959 for travel to
conferences or congresses held outside North America.

The normal amount of each grant will be equivalent to
the lowest round-trip tourist class or excursion airplane fare
between the recipient’s home and the place of meeting,
applicable to the actual period of the conference or congress.
No allowance will be made for living expenses.

Application forms, which will be supplied on request to
the Social Science Research Council, 230 Park Avenue,
New York 17, N. Y., must be filed not later than May I,
1958, for meetings to be held in 1958. For meetings to be
held in 1959, a filing date for applications will be announced
in the autumn of 1958.

FULBRIGHT GRANTS FOR ADVANCED
RESEARCH AND UNIVERSITY LECTURING
IN ASIA, THE PACIFIC, LATIN AMERICA

The Committee on International Exchange of Persons,
appointed by the Conference Board of Associated Research
Councils, has announced that in recent months Executive
Agreements have been signed with Paraguay and Brazil,
bringing to a total of seven the Latin American Republics
participating in the Fulbright Educational Exchange Pro-
gram. Both the Paraguayan and Brazilian programs are ex-
pected to be inaugurated in 1958, and the committee wel-
comes inquiries.

The 1959-60 announcement of university lecturing and
advanced research awards in the Latin American Republics,
South and Southeast Asia, and the Pacific Area will be issued
early in March. The closing date for making application is
April 25, 1958. Awards are offered:

In Latin America: for Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Ecuador, Paraguay, and Peru

In the Pacific Area: for Australia and New Zealand

In South and Southeast Asia: for Burma, India, Pakistan,
the Philippines, Thailand.

The same announcement will include a list of openings
for the academic year 1958-59 under the Educational Ex-
change Program with Ireland. This Program utilizes Irish
currency and is generally patterned after exchanges au-
thorized by the Fulbright Act. Other 1958-59 interim pro-
grams to be announced are those for Iran and Taiwan, under
recently reactivated Fulbright Agreements.

Detailed program information and application forms
may be obtained from the Conference Board of Associated
Research Councils, Committee on International Exchange
of Persons, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington 25, D. C.

12