._/;

P———?——..——i

 

COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Minutas of the Tenth lMeeting
Academlc Iear VhE=t 52

Persons Present: S. H, Caldwell, Richard Bootcn, H. Feshbach,
TR : J. W. Forrester, H. R. J. Grc3zh, J. A, Hrones
C. ¢C. lin, P, M. Morse, E. Recissner, W. W,
Seifert.

The Commlittee discussed the remainii z caces of ap-
pointments for the following year. Two applicatiors in Mathe-
matice , Bennington and Archer were discussed by the Committee
aend were left for Reissner and Lin to make final declsion on
whether or not they were to be appointed. It was elso agreed
that the Physics Department would appolnt H..£tory to take the
place of the earlier appointment of A. Duren, now deceassd.

The discussion then turned to the question of the
preliminary courses 1n Numerical Anglysis to bs given naxt
year. Reissner and Lin reported that there was some feeling
that the first-term course should be an undergraduate senlor
course rather than a graduate course. This was discusged,

The Committee did not come %to any final conclusion, but there
was some feeling that 1t might be better %o heve both courses
listed as greduate courses at least at firat (particularly since
M351, the suggssted prerequisite, is a graduals course). '
My. Grosch discussed the subject matter of the course he was
interested in giving and suggested that he pe:iaps should glive
the first term and Professor Hildebrand the s¢ :ond rather then
the revarse. The consensus of opinion of the “ommittes seamed
counter to this 1dea. It-was suggested that ( ~osch and Hilde-
brand get together in the near futura to seg t v2ther a combined
scheduls of two one-term courses, with Hildeb:and giving the
first course, registered in the Mathematics Denartrent, and
Grosch giving the second course, listed in the Electrical

. Engineering Department (at least for the firs! year or 80)

could not bs worked out. Morse expscts to hezr frcm Grosch
and Hildebrand next week. |

Profagsor Hrones and his assistants in the Flight
Simulator Projzct discussed the development of thelr project
and indicated that they were anxious that the squipment involved
be made available for educational and gsneral repesreh activitie
of the Institute. VMorse outlined the activities of the Committe  ,
indicated that it was possible that some of the assistantship
finaneing controlled by the Committee might be useful in asupport
ing some men working with this equlpmen© for sdvanced degraes,