= "OU © OO

COMPUTATION CENTER

MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

CAMBRIDGE 39, MASSACHUSETTS
January 22, 1959

Mr, M, Loren Bullock
IBM Corporation
Room 26-147

Dear Mr, Bullock:

The purpose of this letter is to provide you with the
detailed information concerning the letter of intent for a 7090
transistorized system which is to be installed in the MIT
Computation Center, It must be understood that the machine
complement may not be the final one, since we do not have
sufficient information from IBM concerning some of the components
on the 7090 system. We have carefully considered our present
computing load and expected future computing commitments and
arrived at the machine complement shown on the attached list.

The only area in which there is a question concerning
the number of units required is that pertaining to the data channels
and associated magnetic tape units, Furthermore, our decision in
the off-line equipment area may be incorrect -- we have indicated
the same complement we currently have on the floor; one which uses
the vacuum tube-type control unit and a Type 729 Model 1 Tape Drive.
There is some question in my mind whether this may change since the
7090 system has transistorized tape units for all other devices,
As soon as IBM decides whether or not to transistorize the off-line
equipment, we will modify our order accordingly.

In our discussions concerning the systems aspect of this
installation, our decisions were governed by the following facts:

1. Data Channel (7607) Model 1 units are needed for
the on-line card machines, Two Data Channels
are required.

2. Data Channel (7607) Model 2 units are used for
the systems tapes.

3. Data Channel (7607) Model 2 units are used for
the slow-speed input tape.


Wr, WM, Loven Buileew RN | Jamvary 22, 1998

4, Data Channel (7607) Model 2 mits are used for
the siow-spesd output tape,

5. Date Channel (7607) Model 2 mite are used tor
mrious file maintenance, sorting, and other
intermediate tape activities, .

6, Dats Channel (7607) Model 2 units are used for
4 dram-iiks’ devies, Foal time package, ote,

I would appresists your submitting this order to the
Corporation as soon as possible, in order that our installation date
will not be delayed bWodnties we Bid fot place an order.

Sincerely yours,

F. M, Vorzuh
Assistant Director

MY inh
Av tanhment

Ger Prof, P, mM, Morss A


