July 13, 1959

Dr., Arthur Grad
National Seilence Feundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthur:

This is In the nature of a progress report concerning
a posslble Conference of Direcctors of university computing
centers, about which I wrote you early last spring.

After I wrote you I wrote %o about a dozen directors
of the larger university centers aglting for their reactions
about a separate permanent organizition for university computing
center directors. The answers I received were nearly unanimous,
They were not enthuslastie about another permanent organlzation
in the computer ficid. They agreed there are a nunber of probe
lems pecullar to univergity computing centers whieh ousht to be
talked over in common from time to time. They wondered if
special mectings could be called about the time of an ACM opr
Joint Computer Conference op whether one or two single conflere
ences would not accomplish what was needed. Scveral of the
letters mentloned specific problems of interest, much as the
problem of financing the computing eenter while gtill keeping
1t avallable for students and faculty, alse the questions of
academic standards and the status of research on machines,

Last month I attended a conference called by IBM at
Poughltcepele for the dlrectors of university computing centers
using IBM eguipment. About 20 of the 85nown directors of col=-
lege computing centers were there, mostly directors of centers
having 650°%s. We had an evening gscesion concerning this same
problem. Thexe again, the feeling wos that 1t was premature to
tallt about a permanent organization. However, I found a much
greater need for general dlscussion and mutual agircement on
varlous matters among this group whilch represcented the smaller
and newer computing centers rather than the representatives of
older and larger eenters to whom I had written before. This
group felt the need of support for thelr plans and suggestions
for what arec wise and unwiee means of financing and help in
determining procedures and academic stzndards. After an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planning group with