POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE OF BROOKLYN
THE PROTEIN STRUCTURE PROJECT
55 JOHNSON STREET, 4TH FLOOR
BROOKLYN 1, NEW YORK

October 3, 1 9 5 6

Dr. P.M. Morse

Department of Physics

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. Morse:

Dr. C.C, Hurd of the International Business Machines
Corporation has suggested I write to you concerning our computa-
tional problems.

The Protein Structure Project of which I am Director was or=-
ganized six years ago for the purpose of discovering the complete
atomic arrangement in the molecule of a protein. We have decided to
attack this problem by the use of X-ray diffraction from single crys=-
tals of protein, and have spent these last few years developing crys=-
tallization techniques, perfecting X-ray diffraction apparatus and
making preliminary computations--all toward the goal of discovering
the structure of the protein we selected. The work of the Project
is now at a stage where we shall need to use faster and more capacious
computing machinery than so far has been available to us.

 

The International Business Machines Corporation has placed at
our disposal the facilities of the Watson Laboratory in New York City,
and we have made a great deal of use of the various computing machines
installed there; in particular, we have recently needed the full ca-
pacity of the IBM 650 in many of our recent calculations. The reason
we need the 704 is that we must evaluate three-dimensional Fourier
series with up to 15000 coefficients, and also must compute the values
of these coefficients from assumed structures of the function repre-
sented by the series. This function eventually should represent the
electron density in one unit cell of the crystalline protein, and
therefore the positions of all the atoms in a protein molecule.


Dr. P,M. Morse -2 = October 35,1956

and oriented in al} possible ways,
Dr. Alexander Tulinsky is a member of the staff of our Project

I can give other references, if necessary, but all the other ones
would be to people not in Cambridge, and therefore not so easily
available to you,

Dr. Tulinsky has written a short letter of inquiry concerning

the technical aspects of your 704, and I am enclosing his letter with
this,

I hope to hear from you soon,
teups very truly,
David Harker

DH :KH
Enclosure

CC? JeT. Edsall CeCe Hurd W.J. Eckert Ae. Tulinsky


