STABLE LATTICES
PART 11

HARVEY com

10. Introductlon t? Part 11- The 'most interesting cases of stable lattices,
introduced in an earlier volume of this Journal (12), were the (algebraic) mod-
ules of stable norm, or modules whose ratio of minimum absolute nmrzero
norm to lattice determinant (1e, to the square root of module-discriminant)
is a local maXimum for small variations of the basis. We soon found that these
modules were perhaps more numerous than we should have desired if we were
interested only in ﬁnding an absolute maximum. Nevertheless stable lattices
acquire a certain amount of intrinsic interest once we reach the stage where the
wm‘inuau: variable concept of “neighborhood of a lattice” leads to algebraic
criteria of stability. In both these respects the situation displays some similarity
to the more classical subject of extremal (quadratic) forms (2). 1

If the module in question is the module of all integers (i.e., the so-called
integer-module) of a Zola/1y real ﬁeld of degree n, then the criterion of stability
depends on the relative signs of the conjugates of the units. This is a specializa»
tion, (weaker when n > 3), of the classical concept of “(maximum) signature
rank 2"," used by \Veber (13) for instance. We shall merely show, as a signiﬁcant
illustration, that the integer-module of the totally real ﬁeld KN : R (cos 21r/1V),
over the rationals R, has stable norm (except for a few small N).

If we consider ﬁelds that are not totally real, the classical problem of signature
rank becomes vacuous for the imaginary (conjugate) ﬁelds while the stability
criterion that we use becomes more complicated. We shall, however, demon-
strate a reﬁnement of the “unit star” method of Part I (12; p. 265), to obtain a
criterion that can be readily used to test more general modules. We shall carry
this through the cubic case.

The big difﬁculty arises when “too many” roots of unity occur. We shall,
therefore, consider as a ﬁnal example the integer—module of the cyclotomic
ﬁeld It"V : R(exp 27i/N). This module turns out to have a stable norm if and
only if N is square-free. This result, which essentially uses the presence or ab-

sence of a normal basis for KN, should further attest to the algebraic aspect of
stability.

 

11. A totally—real illustration. If we specialize somewhat to inn-gur-
inodules of a totally real normal ﬁeld K, then the criterion of stability (of the

Received September 29, 1953. Presented in the American Mathematical Society September
2, 15152. Research sponsored by the Ofﬁce of Ordnance Research, [7.5. Anny, under conrraci
DA—ZILUl8»ORD712332. . . _

The bibliographical items and section headings are numbered consecutively With items in
Part I, otherwise referred to us (12).

 

 

26.3

'uiun‘a'v‘v

qq