Minutes of the Fifth Meeting

@ of the

Comnittee on Machine Methods of Computation
December 20, 1950

Persons Presents GC. S. Brown, i. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester,
2. Kopal, C, Lin, P. M. adorse end E. hLeissner

The deliberations of the Committee at this meeting were taken
up almost entirely with consideration of tne cases of Verzuh and
Booton. The Sub-Comuittee mentioned in the last minutes reported
that they nad talked to Verzuh énd made two recommendations:

(a) Thet Verzuh not be asked to take a regular written
quelifying examination, but that nis preparation
in his field be checked during the coming term and
Summer by taking at least one course in matnematics
(probably 39), thet he start on his thesls researcn,
particularly in its anslytic aspects and thal the
end of the Spring or during the Summer he take an
oral on two or three aspects of mathematics or elec-
trical engineering, which will be considered to be
% his official examination in the field of his major.
If he passes this examination and satisfies his
supervisory coumittee concerning his course work in
mathematics and his preliminary research on his
thesis, he will be considered to be ready to com-
plete his thesis and take nis final thesis exzmlina-
tion.

(b) That, in tne opinion of the Sub-Committees Verzuh
would not be zble to carry on this Spring program
effectively unless ine were given full time 0 work on
it. The Coumittee tunen voted tuat Morse should ask
Stratton whetiier it were possible to give Verzuh a
leave of absence, with pay, from his job tnis Spring
so that ne could carry out tiids program, &nd to
recommend to the Electrical Engineering Depertment
that Brown, Fesnbach, Kopal and helssner be his
supervisory couwittee for nis general oral exauing-
tion and for nis thesis. Morse will report to tais
supervisory committee end to tue Electrical Engineer-
ing Department the result of his conversation with
Stratton.

Subsequent to the meeting, Morse saw Stratton &nd told him the
recounnendations of the Counaittee. Stretton is to investigate as to
whether Verzuh can be given leave of absence this coming term, and


Minutes of the Fifth Meeting
of the Committee on Machine
Methods of Computation 2

under wuat. arrangements Verzuh can be supported financially. If
it turns out that Verzuh camnot be spared this cowing term, it
was suggested that Verzuh be given a year's leave of absence, be-
ginning in June, to prepare for nis orals and to get well along
in his thesis (perhaps even complete it).

Booton has indicated tout, 1f ne were asked to puss a
qualifying exemination incluaing electronics, he uight have to
postpone his examination for & term in order to brush up on this
subject. The Committee investigated the possibility of Booton's
taking tine qualifying exauination in mutnemstics (his course work
indicates that this wight be possible). The Committee felt that,
if ue were to continue his registration in the Electrical Engi-
neering Department and take nis thesis with an Electrical Engi-
neering supervisor, Booton shoulda aave sowe knowledge of elec-
tronics and that it would be therefore advisable for niu to take
the additional term to prepere for an exauination of the type
mentioned in the last minutes. On the other hund, if Booton
still wished to take the mathematics qualifying examination, he
should then transfer his registration to the Mathematicg Depart-
ment and expect to take his tnesls with a Mathematics Department
supervisor (although there could be readers for tne thesis from
tue Electrical Engineering Departuwent). Tals latter alternative
mignt wean that ne would nave to modify nis plan for thesis to
seme extent, including more mathemutics in the research, but in
the end it was felt tonat this is desirable. There was some in-
dication that Carrus, uentioned in the previous minutes, should
elso consider tnese alternatives, Consequently, no action will
be teken on & possible modified Elsctrical Engineering qualify-
ing examination to be given in February, &s mentioned in the pre-
vious minutes, until Kopal (ana possibly forse) has talked to
Booton and Carrus and found out their desires in this matter.

The next meeting of the Committee will be 9:30 Wednesday,
January 3, at which time the Committee will tuke up the continu-
ing question of courses in tine field of machine computation, and
will start the consideration of possible contracts for the sup-
port of some of the machines at the Institute.

Nl ee 0

Chairman


