May 13, 1959

 

~
-
3
Sa
on ¥
Ty
ee
el
td

Professor Alan J. Perlis
Director, Computation Center

2 Carnegie Institute of Technology
ig Schenley Park

ie Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania

Th eh
RY

Ler at : Tm
aA aly

2 | Dear Professor Perlis:

= Last summer when I was at Endicott at the IBM Conference
x for Directors of University Computing Centers, I was asked to do

i! some thinking about organizing further meetings of Directors of

- these Centers and, in fact, whether it would be appropriate for

3 such Directors to organize themselves into a formal or informal
society. I have hesitated for some time as to what action is
appropriate, partly because I am mildly opposed to proliferating

= additional societies or conventions and, partly because I have been
- extremely busy this year, It was, however, suggested that a meeting
7 of people interested in this general field might be arranged either
7a before or after the ACM meeting here this fall, A recent talk with
2% the local Program Committee for this meeting, however, discouraged
this action and I am somewhat at a loss as to where to go next.
Consequently, I am writing for your advice,

 

 

it is perfectly true that the Directors of university
computing centers have problems which are not touched on in the
present ACM meetings or in other computer meetings. They are, of
course, more in the nature of administrative problems, although
these certainly can be real, Whether they could be helped by
having occasional meetings at which these problems can be discussed
or whether they can be taken care of adequately by informal discus-
sion at meetings such as the ACM, I am not sure. It is possible, if
only occasional meetings would be useful, that the National Science
Foundation would be willing to be of financial help. What is needed,
however, is some indication from you who are directing university
computing centers as to the need for such a meeting and the possible
agenda, if it is needed. There is to be an Eastern Computer Conference
in Cambridge later in the year. This meeting could be scheduled
near it if such action seemed appropriate. On the other hand, there
may be advantages in meetings separate from such large convocations
at some quiet spot where we could talk things over at leisure. Or,
of course, we should not meet at all,


Prof, A, J. Perlis May 13, 1959

I will be again at the IBM Conference in June

sure, the topic will come up again, I would certainly appreciate

your comments on thig general question, particularly if they can
reach me before June 15,

where, I am

Sincerely,

Philip M, Morse, Director

PMM/ bf


