Computation Center Usage and Needs

The purposes of the Computation Center are: education in modern
computation and research in techniques of programming which make computers
easier to use. These two purposes are important since graduate students
who have used the Center frequently go on to research, business, or
teaching positions where their computer insight is influential; faculty
members who use the Center are, of course, 1in a key position to
inject the advanced computer procedures which they have acquired in
their courses.

Programming Systems

To further education and the closely allied research it is
important that computers are made easier to use then they presently
are. Up to now these improvements have been made by the Center staff
preparing efficient utility programs for general use; in particular
symbolic post-mortem programs, an automatic operator program, and many
special utility programs for Fortran programs. An inevitable consequence
of these programming system improvements is that they raise the number
of potential users of the computer and hence the over-all demand on
the computer facilities. Today M.I.T. essentially uses all of its
one shift of IBM 704 time and the New England colleges are using more
and more of their shift. In addition, many users have become convinced
that computer techniques are the proper procedure for their field and
would like to use the computer in larger amounts of time than they are
presently able to do. These include typically real-time meterology
predictions, simulation studies of business models and involved cal-
culations arising in theoretical solid-state and molecular physics.

For the relatively new application of symbolic manipulations,
there have been two other systems developed. The Center staff
has prepared a speclal compiler-interpreter system called COMIT which
is primanly for linquistic studies. The second system consists of
the LISP language developed by Professor McCarthy and is a quite
different programming system. It has a mathematical logical approach