i3

=
le
gr.

b
1<

S

-~

=
te
S

:ffx

-

P ‘j_i‘

b=

A PERIODIC ALGORITHM FOR CUBIC FORMS *

By Harvey Comn.

1. Introduction. In a very famous memoir in 1896,
set up a continued fraction type of algorithm for the
linear homogeneous forms in three integral variables.
in the ordinary theory of binary quadratic

Minkowski [5]
product of three real

By the precedent set

forms, such an algorithm has to
supply a definition of reduced form with several properties: First of all every

form should be equivalent under unimodular change of variables to one or

more reduced forms. Furthermore a concept of neighboring form should be

present so that the reduced forms will arrange themselves into chains.

Finally when the three linear forms are conjugates, each spanning a (totally
real) cubic module, the number of distinct reduced forms should be finite.

Prbbably the most immediate application of such an algorithm would be the
determination of units of a totally real cubic field as

automorphs within
the finite chain of forms.

The purpose of this work is to present a new algorithm for such cubic
forms, combining some of the features of an ordinary (modified) continued
fraction algorithm with some of the features of Minkowski’s algorithm. This
new algorithm follows the former one to the extent that reduction is based on
a visually convenient array of 4 and — signs rather than on “admissible ”
bodies; and it follows the latter algorithm to the extent that the proof given
here for the reduction theorem uses Minkowski’s work as a convenient starting
point. Once the theoretical aspects are established, it will be seen that the

actual calculations in cubic fields are very simple, although the units obtained
there are far from thoroughly investigated.

2. Modified simple continued fraction algorithm. The familiar simple
continued fraction (for binary quadratic forms) of course fulfils the above
requirements par excellence. We present a modification to emphasize some
curious resemblances to the definition of reduced forms that we presently
give for cubics. The quadratic form may be written

(?)

e ——

O (n, m) = ,2,,

* Received August 27, 1951.

27, Research currently sponsored by the U. S. Army
0. 0. R.

821