MIMIC CGAPUTATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM

F- M. Verzuh
June 22, 1956


TABLE gamma

 

Introduction.......................
whine-Aidedmlyaie-e.35. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Introduction to Digital Computer Coding and Logic - 6.535
Electronic Computational Laboratory‘- 6.588 . . . . . . .

Summary of Student Enmllnent Statistics. . . . . . . . .

my.
. . l
. . 1
. . 2
. . 3
. . 9


Mimic CWATIONAL TRAINING FEOGBAE!

 

I
.

introduction

 

There are a number of graduate subjects in automatic computation,
numerical analysis, and new electronic data processing, oﬂered at ILLT.
The present list of subjects directly related to machine computation includes
the following:

 

 

Subg- . Descrigtion Units Year Instructor
6.25 Machine -Aided Analysis 3 - 6 4 Linvill
6.535 Digital Computer Coding _
and Logic 3 6 G Arden
6.538 Electronic computational _ _
‘ Laboratory 3 l 5 G Verzuh
6.54 Pulsed-Data. Systems 3 - G G Linvill
6.567 Switching Circuits 3 ~ I. - 6 ' G Caldwell
6.568 Switching Circuits 3 - 1 - 6 G Caldwell
2.215 Methods of Engineering _
‘. Analysis 3 9 G Crsndnll
15.542 Hensgenent Information Systens 3 - 6 6 Gregory
1539 nethods of Applied Mathematics 3 - 9 G Hildebrand
H411 Numerical Analysis 3 - 2 — 7 G Hildebrand
. H412 Numerical Analysis 3 - 2 - 7 G Hildebrand

It is apparent from the above list that these subjects are grader-Lingual!
Graduate A subjects - which indicates that this subject is primarily for
graduate students. However, it is perfectly possible for undergraduate
students in their senior year to take these subjects as an elective.

Eachine-Aided Analzsis - 6.25

 

Subject 6.25 ~- Hachine-Aided Analysis —- was offered for the first
time dosing the full term 1953-1954. This subject differs from other
computational subjects in the following respects:


1. It is a. iourth-yecr elective subject designed for the
undergraduate,

2. It is a survey subject which covers numerical analysis,
analog mutation, and digital oonputntien,

3. It pavides the student with s general knmedge 0! sons
of the nunerical methods acessury to: whine wutetien.

Adaittedly, such a survey subject cannot be all inclusive, and becanse of

the lax-gs enrollment, it is he longer possible to provide ﬂue student with
actual physical contact with any computer.

Since 1953 this subject has turned cut to be increasingly popular.
As a matter of fact, it is new effered both full and spring terns. ma
attendance is quite high. here were 106 students in 6.25 during the
Fall Tex-s 1955, and 47 students during the Spring Term 1956. This subject
offered at the undergraduate level enables students to decide whether they
are interested in taking additional subjects in this area, and if they are,
there are 10 graduate subjects in which they any enroll.

 

Introduction 2 Digital cmuter EM Eng Logic - 6.535

This subject was, as usual, again offered during the Spring Tern 1956,
and there were 97 students enrolled. As a. result, it was necessary to divide
the subject into two sections taught by D. Arden and P. Helwig, respectively.

 

Because of the large enroll-ant in this subject, no attespt was made
to make actual use of any computer. As a matter of fact, the usual detailed
coding for the Whirlwind Computer was not presented, and students were not
allowed to use the conputer because of the large size of the group. Since the
departure of Professor Adams, the content of the course has been changed
somewhat, and during the spring tern considerable emphasis has been devoted

to a study of the logical design of the internal system aspects of several
large coaputers -- Whirlwind, None, 831, etc.


Electronic aﬂutational laboratory - 6.538

The subject matter offered in 6.538 since 1M7 provided the student

with two basic types of netsrinl.

Speciﬁcally, sons 80% 01 the laboratory

work was devoted to a study of electronic circuit components by actual
laboratory work on the following experiments:

I.

II.

III.

IV .

VI.

VII.

V111.

IX.

Tine Measurement Equipment and study of Synchroscopes and
Oscilloscopes

Pulse Generating Equinox“:

An expedient on blocking oscillators, delay-line pulse

generators, sharpening and sdunringvcireuits, and ringing
circuits.

Bistable Circuits and Flip Flops

vAn exporilsnt covering various flip-ﬂop circuits
ineludinz Thyratron, single-tube pentode circuits, Eccles-
Jordnn circuits, Ina-speed pentode circuits, and

trnnsisterized flip flops.

Electronic Counters and Counting Circuits

An- experiment covering Thyrstron counters, binary
decade counters, screen-coupled counters, biquinary counters,
respectively.

Coincidence Circuits and Gate Circuits

An experiment considering various types of coincidence
circuits: diodes, triodes, pentodes, and other multiple
coincidence devices. -

Design or Bistsble Circuits

A projectetype oi experiment in which the student designs
(on paper) ‘a' ﬂip £1015 to meet certain operating conditions,
and tests his design by actual construction of the flip flop,
and testing its performance in the laboratory.

Magnetic Recording of Pulsed Information

An superment on magnetic recording in which the moanetic
material, head, recording frequency, pulse amplitude, tape
velocity, are varied and the resulting'perfomnce evaluated.

Tine Pulse Distributor

An experiment studying vacuum tubes and diodes as control
elements by pulse distribution of voltage signals.

Square—Kys’teresis-Loop Haguetic Storage Elements

An experiment on the use of mimetic cores as a storage
media, nunber of turns on various windings, current owlitude
of recording and sensing turns, are used as parameters.


\e

.4-

Detniled intonation regarding the above nine experiments was given
to the students by nouns or a written set of notes (230 pages) which were
critter: as reference notes and experieent notes, respectively. In addition to
the obese nine ewes-ileum, tee lnborctery expel-innate were devoted to the use
of punched cord equip-out. Speciﬁcally, one on the cord punch, sorter, and
tabuletcr, and the second on the Card Program Calculator, respectively. The
class lectures were prienrily devoted to a discussion a! basic construction of
digital colputers, and their use in the solution of scientiﬁc amputations
encountered in the solution 01 similtnnoous algebraic equations, inversion of
matrices, solution or ordinary mterentisl equations, etc.

Because of the sviildbility of the Type 650 Iagnetic Drum Calculator,
it was decided thnt the subject content 02 6.538 should be revised considerably.
Accordingly, during the Spring Tea 1956 all of the sbove-nentioned electronic
experiments were deleted from the subject content and the subject was devoted
entirely to the application and use of digital computing equipment. The
students were taught the bseic principles of digital computers by performing
experiments on card punches, setters, accounting machines, the Card Programmed
Calculator, and the Type 650 Hsgnetic Drum Calculator. The principle emphasis
was actually devoted to a study of the use of the 650 machine in the solution
of "scientific and business data processing problems".

Students were taught to progre- the 550 by becoming familiar with
the basic 650 language. Aitcr the basic language was understood, they were
taught the following interpretive systems:

1. mass MIT Selective System
2. Ill'i‘lm FLOATING mom Interpretive-mnemonic coding. (1600)

3; N091 Fixed end Floating Interpretive-nuaric coding (600)
4. ‘ SOAP Symbolic Optimal Assembly Program

5. FLESY Floating Interpretive Matrix System (815)

6. m Fixed and Fleeting Interpretive-numeric coding (1000)

It is obvious that the students were not able to become completely familiar with
all 01’ the above systems. All students instructed now understand the 650
language, names, and MITILAG. However, only certain students become familiar
with each of the other systems depending upon their particular interest.:

The following list of homework and experiments were performed during
this subject:

1. Problem 1 — Laborstory use of the Type 026 Card Punch and
Type 082 Sorter

The student spends two hours in the laboratory using the -
card punch and sorter to prepare and sort several hundred
3BR punched cards, thus insuring complete familiarity with
these two machines. ‘


II.

III.

IV .

VI.

VII .

 

Problel No. 2 « Design of Punched Card System to Handle

Business Data Processing Work at the Eastern Joint Computer
Conference

This problem teaches the inpertanco of overall ﬂow
charts , the design of suitable 1m cord layout forms , the
preparation of accurate instructions for machine operating ‘
personnel, and the estimation of the personnel and machine tine

, required to handle the registration for 2, 000 attendees at the

conference .

Problen No. 3 - The Solution of a First Order Differential
Equation on the Type 650 liagnetic Drum Calculator

The student is given a. block diagra- of a 650 program -'
used to solve-en ordinary jdifferehtinl equation using {earths
order Runge-Kutta fonulne. As part of the sssignnent, the -
student prepares the actual coding oi' the 650 program using
basic language, prepares a test solution for this program,
computes a few check points, debugs his program: on the 650,
and finally carries out the solution of this woman on the
machine. After conpleting this particular experiment, the
student has a very intilnte knowledge at the 650 machine.

Solution of an Ordinary Differential Equation on the 650

The student solves the identical problem stated in the
preceding section using the Card Progrmed Calculator. This
teaches then the difference between the internally-stored program
features of the 650 and the card—progressed characteristics of
the Card Programmed Calculator.

Evaluation of the Roots of a 98 degree Polynomial

A 650 progran using the N0?! systen enslprepared which
evaluates the roots of the polynomial using Hitchcock's loathed.

Conputation e: the Actuarial Life Insurance Tables

Since a high degree at accuracy in this computation was
needed, the bas_____i_c 650 language was modified to perform 20-digit
arithnetic in the solution of this problem.

Inversion of Matrices using nodified Elimination Procedure

A basic 650 program was prepared which automatically
includes a pivotal-condensation" technique. This program
correctly handles matrices which have zero elements on the
main diagonal.


VIII.

XI.

3“ 1

XIII.

XIV .

 

Calculation of Nuclear Transformations nod Radioactive Decay

_ A HITILAC program was prepared which computes the number
of stone present in the nth chain neither in the simultaneous
transformation by nuclear reaction in radioactive decay of a
given target nuclide in a given neutron flux' at any tine.

Computation of Interest Calculations for Savings Banks.-

A basic GEO-program was prepared which outanaticslly
handles any of the six different methods for per-toning interest
calculations arising in the savings bank.

Computation of Bivarisste‘ frequency Distributions on the 650

A basic 650 progre- wes prepared which conputes the
bivsriete frequency distribution by corresponding class intervals
(for various parameters) , and also computes certain statistics
obtained iron the sbove-nentioned distribution. An eiiective
hotbed of storage allocation is employed which employs a. neat
trick tor obtaining the desired arguments and functions in en
internally-stored. table of values.

Study 91 _.pptinun Progressing on. the 650 Calculator

A ba__s__ic 650 program was prepared which studied various
methods tor —_e£i’ectin¢ sell-optimum data storage on the dru-
A conpaot decimal systen for word storage and selection using
the ten branch instructions (33]) 1 - 10, respectively).

Solvent Extraction of Hotels ‘

A basic 650 program was prepared ior computing the
distribution coefficients of zircon and hafnium in the aqueous
and organic phases.

Solution of the Heat Flow Equation

A basic 650 program was prepared for the solution 033 a
partial ditferential equation describing the heat flow problem
using several different boundary conditions.

Iterative Method for Solving Simultaneous Equations on the 650
A basic 650 program was prepared which evaluates the

convergence rate, accuracy, and solution tine using Craig's

method, Conjugate Gradient method, and Lanczos's method,
respectively.

650 Solution of the Vertical Resistivity Problem

A mess program was prepared for the solution of the integral
equation arising in geophysical prospecting.


XVI.

XVII.

XVIII .

XIX.

XXi .

 

Preliminary Analysis of an Inventory Control Systen

A non-mehine study of the my problens arising in a.
systems study of the overall inventory control problem.
Detailed description is given of the nature of transactions
involved, considerations involving volume or data, rate of
infomstinn flow, need for rearrangement of co-putational
procedure, study of the effects of errors, breakdown, and
interruptions, and finally a consideration of problea areas
of interest to manage-ant to provide better overall control.

Solution of 3 Payroll Problem on the 650 Calculator

A basic 650 prozm was prepared for a hypothetical
payroll involving 200 employees. The study included a
consideration of piece-work as well as the regular payroll
in which employees switch back and iorth several tines each»
day. the usual items such as, regular psy, overtine pay, bond
deduction, hospitalization, incone tux, union dues, credit
union, Continuity chest and other miscellaneous deductions, were
included.

Hitchcock's Kethod for Evaluating the Roots of a Polynomial“

A basic 656 program was prepared for evaluating the roots
of a polynomial. Particular emphasis was given to s con-
sideration of polynonisln which cannot be handled by this method.

 

study of Series-Pmllel Switching Functions

A basic 650 program was prepared for evaluating the
switching functions or six or fewer variables. The program
employed is a nodification of the McCluskey Quins reduction
procedure by means of. which the preliminary inplicsnts and
minimum sun ferns oi the switching iunctions were obtained.
The solutions of 86 dirterent problems were performed during
the course of this study.

Solution of Spheriodal Antennae Equation Using the 650

A NOPI program was prepared 20:- the solution of. this”
equation using Hilne'e predictor-corrector formulae.

650 Solution of the Production scheduling Problem

A MITSS program was prepared tor the solution of this
problem which determined production curves which minimize costs
for a single arbitrary sales forecast. Graphicnl results were
obtained which related the sensitivity of the solutions for
various system parameters using a quadratic production cost
function.


2311. Solution of the Inventory Control Problem on the 650 Calculator

A basic 650 program was prepared for s siglitied inventory
control problem. Specifically, the program was designed to
handle any number of stock-numbered itels up to 34-per-day iteus.
The program was united to cmtrol and reporting of customer
products only. No nttenpt was node to control the conponent parts
for the items. Similarly, no attempt was node to report the raw
Interial require-ants.

XXIII. Study at Brokerage Accounting

A basic 650 program was prepared for calculating the itels
appearing in the transaction statement of a customer's brokerage
account. The following itens were included in this study:

1. Co-ercisl postage end insurance,
2. federal transfer taxes,

, 3. State transfer taxes,
4. 8.3.0. tees.

Naturally a program of this type cannot be all inclusive and a
nunber of simplifying assumptions bad to be made to attest the
solution of the progra- in a reasonable amount of tine.

A consideration of the above list reveals that a wide variety of
problems were considered. It oust be emphasized that the latter group of
subjects were performed on a "ter- paper" basis. That is, these studies
were performed on an individual basis, and elaborate reports were prepared
describing the problon statement, the actual 650 program, the results obtained,
and a smary and evaluation of the paper. Although the term paper was expected
to require 30—40 hours oi home and laboratory work, the actual tins put in by
the students varied enormously. For oxalple, this tine ranged iron 30 hours
to 360 hours, respectively. In the latter case, students intend to use this
topic as a basis for their master's theses during succeeding terns. ‘

It is apparent ﬁrm .the above course description that an attempt was
made to cover both scientific cosputing and electronic data processing in the
subject. This can indeed be done, particularly when individual tors papers
are assigned. However, as tine goes on it my be advisable to separate this
subject into two distinct subjects, one dealing solely with scientific computing
and the other with business data processing.

This subject was taught by Dr. E. El. Vcrzuh, Director, Otficc of
statistical Services. There were 26 students enrolled in Subject 6.538 during
the Spring Terr. 1956 of which there were 12 Electrical Engineering students,
4 Chemical Engineering students, one Geophysics student, 3 Economics students,
2 Business Administration students, and 4 Mathematics students, respectively.
This was the first time students were able to use the 650 Calculator as part of
their laboratory work. Judging by the large number of this group —- 12 students ~-
who are now using the machine for the solution of. their thesis problems, it
appears that the subject was highly successful.


data. In addition to the solution 033 scientific computing and business
Pr°°°551n8 problems, a number of classroom lectures were devoted to the
consideration and evaluation of the relative merits of the many canescisily-
available electronic data processing systens. Specifically, this was achieved
by 3 Study of 16-representntive intermediate-seize dm computers, and seven
of the large-scale systeus -- BIZHAC, Datmtic 1000, EBA 1103 , me 704,
m 705: Mycon, and UNIVAc, respectively. Since my of the students were
entering various large business, industrial, and government concerns, it was
important that they have some knowledge of 80.3 c! the relative merits of the
individual systems. Finally, several lectures were devoted to the In 704

Calculator which will be installed in the LLT. Comtstion Center in the
nest future.

Sum; 93 Student Enroll-ant statistics

 

 

, A detailed description of the course content 01 the subjects
listed in the introduction is given in the LLT. Catalogue.

An indication of the interest in ”chino computation my be
obtained by considering the relieving enrollment in each of these subjects
during the ncsdenic you 1955-4956:

No . Students

 

 

 

 

 

 

£251. Home ' Fall Saring Total
2.215 nethods otjngineering Analysis is 0 18
6.25 Mine-Aided Analysis I 106 47 153
6.535 Digital Conputer Coding and Logic 0 97 97
6.538 Electronic Computational Lab. 0 26 ‘26
6.54 Pulsed-Data Systems ' 0 60 so
6.567 Switching Circuits 48 0 48
6.568 Switching Circuits 0 30 30
15.542 Managenent Information Systems 0 22 > 22
M39 Methods of Applied mathematics 130 123 253
M411 Numerical Analysis 45 0 45
M412 Numerical Analysis 0 16 16
J Total 347 421 768

It is apparent from the above list that the total attendance in these 11 subjects
was 768 students. This does not mean, however, that there were 768 individuals
involved since many of the students took s number or: the above subjects, thus the
actual number of individuals exposed to machine computation is considerably less.

F. El. Verzu‘n
June 33, 1956


