4

 

* THE- SUPPORT OF MACHINE PROGRAMMING STAFF
~~ FOR .THE UTILIZATION OF
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS IN SOCIAI. SCIENCE

The Facllity and Its Potentialities

The high-speed computing facility, to be installed by
IBM at the new Computation Center at MIT will be the largest and
most flexible facility in this country to be devoted exclusively
to unclassified research and education. IBM will contribute more
than a fifth of a million a year in its support for maintenance
and operation. What is needed, in addition, to make this an out-
standing center for the investigation of digital computer
potentialities ln all branches of scientific research, is about
$100,000 a year for the support of a research staff, which can
work with scientists in various fields to develop new and more
effective techniques of machine utilization. :

| Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in New
England to participate in the use of the machines, and IBM has set
up funds for Assistantships ©0 enable graduate students, at MIT
and at the participating colleges, to spend time at the Center
learning to use the equipment. This Center and these arrangements
represent potentialities for new developments in social and
physical science of great and unexplored importance.

; There willl be no charge for machine time made to students
or faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the .
routine aspects of operation will be taken care of by IBM, so that
those who know how to use such equipment can use it, without cost
up to the fourteen hours a day during which the machiné will be
avallable at first. A number of problems in economics are going
to be put on the machine by Professor Solow of MIT and by Professor
Orcutt of Harvard and, as other research workers in the social |
Sclences learn haw to use the equipment, other problems will be
brought to the Center.

2

The Importance of Team Research

ex
Co

A — — a — Th lu tS ——

But, an instrumentality, by itself, cannot produce new
research. To make the lmportant advances which are possible with
a computer of the speed and flexibility of Nis, ong needs Team
of research people, some of whom know the machine and some of wihon
know the research field. To get exciting new pos3ipllities beyond
the stage of a "gleam in the ey2" we need, in addition to the
machine, a stall of experts in machine ur cady to team up with
those scientists who believe the machine «¢ help them but are not
Sure how, S80 that, between them, they can late the am in
the eye" into new and importa results


In the long run, the various social scientists in New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them, But 1t takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers in
any field are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic detalls of its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed in our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using computers
in social science now, we will have to use a team: a man who knows
the field plus a man who knows the machine.

Need for a Research Staff in Machine Utilization, an
Ingredient in the Team

 

This last ingredient is the part which is left out of
the contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-
time staff of enthusiastic machine specialists, to teach prospective
users how to make the machine do 1ts tricks and to Join with
research workers who come with a "gleam in their eye", forming

teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's capabllitles
in research. This staff will be hard, but nct impossible, To
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chiefly toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant of £35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have the graduate student bodies of the partici-
pating institutions to pick from and we have already begun To make
contact with those students who are interestsd in machine utiliza-
tion. There are about two dozen IBM research assistants appointed
for this year. We should be able to pick from the best of These a
few who would like to stay on for two or three years more, after
they have obtained their advanced degrees in engineering, mathe-
matics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potential
members of research teams.

Budge® for the Social Sciences

To make up a staff which could handle the social science
problems as well as the physical sclence ones would need anuther
four or five good men, research men pilus the technicians to back

™

w—
w.

f

wi
them up, plus a small budget for travel and incidental supplies
and equipment, approximately #35,000 a year for three years. 1
would take about three years to get rolling and the developments
should be reviewed at the end of three years, toc see where fo go

next. Such a staff should be more iuportant during the beginning
stages of the utilization of electronic computers, when the prob-

“

lems are not too clearly formulated and when neither partner in
the team knows the other's plans and ideas. Later; when some of
the more important potentialities have been demonstrated, the
research can be split up into projects, each with a definite goal

LD

and with its own budget, which can include p:
continuing staff of the Center. So, eventua

y
+ a

i ol on ~ ~~ owe dl £3 3 3
\rtial support or the
ly, the Center could

I. iy


2

be financed indirectly by contributions from each project which
uses it, if this were considered to be the most desirable way of
keeping it going. At present, however, support by contributions
from established research projects can support only about a third
of the 100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the most
fruitful research of all, the unknown results which are sure to
come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together with
the economist, psychologist or sociologist on the faculty of one
of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with only a
"gleam in his eye". :

Possible Initial Directions for Investigation

As Indicated, we cannot write down in any detail the
directions which this research effort will take, as the various
teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immediate interest and which, in addition,
should provide hints as to still more important applications.

; A. One of these is the deeper investigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 7J4 1s too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines
aré now programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, a few programs have
been devised to make the machine obey the rules of Boolean logic
and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make
the machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the
logic of a game. Different sciences and branches of learning
have their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetics each have patterns of thought which do not exactly
duplicate those of physics. Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which corres-
pond more closely to these other patterns. With a machine of the
flexibility and storage capacity of the 704, such research is
worth while. It will have to be tackled, at the beginning, by
teams of experts in the field of interest, together with wmathe-
matical logicians who know machine operation. :

B. Another general line of attack is in the field of
the storage and rapid access to information, such as 1s needed in
the problems of language translation and historical research, for
example. Several schemes of coding of information, so that it ean
be found quickly and easlly, have been devised on paper, but the
"bugs" in such schemes will become apparent only when masses of
information, of the orderof several hundred thousand items, are
to be ordered and sorted out. The new installation at the Compu-
tation Center will have a storage capacity of this size. Some of
the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed, by
members of the Center staff working with persons familiar with the .
information and tis usea. For example, a project in machine
translation has already been set up under the directbn of Professor
- Locke of the Language Department. As it develops, it will need the
help of machine programming“specialists and will need the use of a
machine to test its ideas. The translation project is already
supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, but parallel work by the
Computation Center on techniques for rapid access to large-quantity


4.

data would help this work as well as others. Another promising
direction of investigation is in the application of machine tech-
niques to library inventorying, cataloging and record-keeping.
Although special-purpose machines will probably be required in the
end, many ideas and procedures can be developed and checked out on
the general-purpose machine at the Center with the addition, per-
haps,. of some specially built input and output equipment. The
staff of the MIT Library is interested in this work and will con-
Tribute its knowledge to its progress. :

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, in part
because the least Investigated up till now, is in the field of
soclal science experiments, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referee. Tactical situations in warfare are
already being studied by "gaming techniques" at Rand and in other
military operations research groups. Similar problems in various
fields of the social sciences can also be studied by simplifying
the situation down to some sort of "game", with more or less com-
plicated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators, to
see what the consequences are of various strategies. If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to somé actual social sltuation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require a
great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that only
by the use of computing machines can the scoring be 8peeded up
sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide
an over-all grasp of the situation under study. Such "gaming
techniques" are closely related to the experiments of Bavelas on
The behavior of task-oriented groups. The use of a properly pro=
grammed computer would provide such experiments with a powerful
and flexible means of changing, controlling, and analyzing these
experiments in social psychology. In this field we could work in
close collaboration with the Center for International Studies at
MIT and with the psychology departments in several other colleges.

Suggested Guidance for the Research
a ate ————— en Ye 4 £2 D0 1)

: The research activities of the Computation Center are
guided and coordinated by an Advisory Committee consisting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges, each
chosen by the president of his college. This Committee provides
over-all policy guidance in all activities. But %o guide the work
in soclal science outlined above, we will need another, more spe-
cilalized group. If financial support for this activity is forth-
coming, about six top-flight social scientists from the participating
institutions will be invited to join a special advisory committee,
to talk over possible lines of research with the Center staff, to
help find those social scientists with "gleams in their eyes" re-
garding machine utilization in their fleld, to help arrange the
formation of teams for the pursuit of the suggested research and
to advise on rélative priorities, if and when there is more work
to be done than there is machine time available.


Equipment, Personnel and Budget

The suggested budget for three years is tentative and is
more 8ependent on our ability to hire one or two more experts in
computer programming than on the amount of work to be done. If we
can find more men of the right sort, more work can be done. ' During
the calendar year 1957 we may not be able to find more than one
senior man, one or two post-doctoral fellows and a couple of tech-
nical assistants. By the fall of 1957 we may be able to persuade
one or two faculty members of the cooperating institutions to spend
appreciable fractions of their time at the Center, working on some
of the problems mentioned earlier. A suitable fraction of their
salaries should be carried by the research funds of the Center
and, 1f the work is in the soclal sciences, would be chargeable
to the proposed grant. Some of the experiments in "gaming" will
require special input or output equipment. Therefore it may turn
out that less than 335,000 will be spent the first year, more than
335,000 the second. The important point, however, is that because
of the presence of the equipment of the Center, supported by IBM,
the ma jority of the budget of this grant can be spent on salaries
for people directly carrying out the research outlined in this
proposal.

The staff can begin to be assembled this spring, but
expenditures would probably not reach full rate until the summer
of 1957. Consequently, the grant could officially start March or
April 1957, or could start as late as June, if some earlier
expenditures could be charged against the grant at that time. .


