January 31, 1958
DSR-#6345

Contract N5ori-60, Task Order I 6915

Amendment No. 16

(3/26/52)

"(§) theoretical studies and experimental research and development
in connection with the application of digital computers in an air
defense system in which information is transmitted to WHIRLWIND
from remote radar stations and processed by the computer, to be
conducted during the period 1 July 1951 to 31 December 1951.,"

It is the desire of the Government and the Contractor that additional
research in agpplied mathematics utilizing facilities in Contractor's
Center for Machines Computation, including the WHIRLWIND computer,

and the application of the facilities to military and scientific prob-
lems, be performed. To accomplish this, there are therby provided

an extension in the period of performance of Task Order I under
Contract NSori-60 and an increase in the estimated cost thereof.

Amendment No. 18

(11/15/52)

It is the desire of the Government and the Contractor that, during

a certain part of the remaining term of Task Order I under Contract
N5ori-60, which provides for research in applied mathematics utilizing
facilities in the Contractor's Center for Machine Computation, including
the WHIRLWIND computer, and the application of the facilities to
military and scientific problems, provision be made for an increase in
the volume of the Contractor'l operations under said Task Order beyond
that heretofore contemplated.

Amendment No. 19

(4/16/53)

It is the desire of the Government and the Contractor that additional
research in applied mathematics utilizing facilities in the Contractor's
Center for Machine Computation, including the WHIRLWIND computer, and
the gppliecation of the facilities to military and scientific problems,
be performed. To accomplish this, there are hereby provided an ex-
tension in the period of performance and an increase in the estimated
cost of Task Order I under Contract NSori-60.

Amendment No. 23

(6/30/55)

Amendment No. 24

(4/20/56)

Since it is the desire of the Government and the Contractor that the
research under Task Order I of Contract NSori-60 be continued pending
the availability of funds for additional research to be conducted, it
has been determined to extend the period of performance of said

Task Order.

It is the desire of the Government and the Contractor that additional

research in applied mathematics ut®#lizing facilities in the Contractort's

Center for Machine Computation, including the WHIRLWIND computer, and

the application of the facilities of military and scientific problems,

be performed. To accomplish this, there are hereby provided an ex-

tension in the period of performance and an increase in the estimated
cost of Task Order I under Contract NSori-60.