The processor is being modified to handle a subset of 709 format statements,
and to include extensive, built-in debugging aids, The current version requires
& 40K card machine, (no other special features) but the system including format
statements will also require indivect addressing and additional instructions

(TNS, TNF).

Any questions or comments should be directed te: F. I. Sillay, Room 1-250,
Masgachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Massachusetts.

TWO NEW SUBROUTINES FROM UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS
m%mw AT S oD

Dr. Robert L.. Rowell writes that he has prepared a detailed procedure for altering
the Fortran Processer (20K -paper tape) to add subroutines. Tapes and write=ups
are available from him.

Two new subroutines have already been added to the 1620 Fortran (Z0K-paper tape)
compiler at the University of Massachusetts. These are Format Centrol, call
name RFS (for typewriter output), and Absolute Value, call name RIS he
Format Control subroutine allows typewriter ‘control, alphabetic output capability,
and format control of output data. The Absolute Value subroutine gives as a
resgult a positive value for any variable used as aa argument regardless of the sign
of the data involved, Tapes and write-ups are available on request,

DEDICATION AT UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS

Dr. Rowell has announced that the University of Massachuseits is pregently
planning a dedication of its Research Ceomputing Center on September 22 and 23
which would include a meeting of this New England Universities 1620 Group on
Friday afterncon and a special program and dedication on Saturday morning.
Professor Philip M. Morse, of M.1.T. ie to be one of the Principal speakers.
Further details and invitations will soon be sent out.

ASSOCIA TION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY
—— o VIAUHINERY

In case you have not already done so, you should certainly join ACM if you are
at all associated with a Computing Center. The Association publishes the
monthly "Cemmunications", quarterly "Journal" and the bimonthly “Reviews',
All of these sheould be available at » Computing Center. A pplications for
membership may be obtained from Association for Computing Machinery,

14 East 69th Street, New York 21, N. Y.

BOOK REVIEWS
M—_“.m“
Do you have a reserved book shelf for the Computing Center, or are vyou develop-

ing your own library ? Following are some recent books which you should know
about:

 
 

y8is of Sociceconomic Systems: A Simulation Study by Orcutt,

LBET, > 2 E arper & Brothe rs, 1961

  

2rger, Korbel, and Rivlin, New Yor B : | ) 4
» the formidable title this is a very readable book describing a very

       

Despite
specific economic meodel in ferms o using it with computer simulstion.