Minutes of the Fourteenth Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Comp station

March 21, 1951

gm Present: R. R. Everett, H. Feshbach, Z. Kopal, C. Lin,
" P. M. Morse, and E. Reissner

Morse reported that DIC has approved definite (rather than
ientative) appointments of assistantships in Applied Mathematics
and Machine Computation; they feel the contract is near enough
comp letion‘ to warrant this. Morse also pointed out that, for the
iirst round of appointments, each Department could figure on a
total of about $10,000, to be split as it saw fit (five half-time
at $2000 each, or four fullutme at $2500 each, etc.).

Kopal presented applications for assistantsIups for:
W. K. Taylor, Malcolm Frazier, S. Yamamura, D. C. Leigh

'lhe Committee suggests that the Electrical Engineering Department
appoint Taylor as Assistant in Applied Mathematics and Machine
Computation, if he is interested in such an appointment, that
lrazier also be appointed if the Department definitely felt he
was up to their standard for other like appointments and that ac-
tion be postponed on the other two, to see what other applica~
tions come in.

Morse presented the. application of L. Sax-tori (already here
as graduate student in Physics), recommended that the application
be held until we see what other applications come in. Three let~
tars from mathematicians, inquiring, about the assistantships were
turned over to Beissner and Lin to find the wishes of their De-
partmentu In one case (a post-doctoral man) Lin was to get more
tackground from the man, to turn over toNbirlvind for considera-
tion for his suitability for Adams' group,

There was a little discussion concerning the aministration
cf these assistantships. Students in each department would be
szpervised by the two Committee members from that Department and
vauld be assigned a specific task from the begixming, though it
i 3 understood that progress will not oe rapid tor the first—year
x1 =n, since they will be learning the field. Each student must be


Kinutes of the Fourteenth Meeting of the
)ommittee on Machine Methods of Computation ~2-

mpressed that he has specific duties, however, and that he must
'qresent a written report on his progress each quarter.

The Comittee will next meet on 11 April unless a rush of
Applications requires one on 4 April.

midi
Phil M. Morse,

Chairman


