3. The IBY Punched-Card Section,

3. The Hand Computing Group (which smployed desk calculators
for coamputationsl purposes).

During the war years 1242-45, the ataff of the Center was increesed

to approximately 350 people. Becsuse of the large volume of war-time
computetional sctivity (3-shift operation, ete.), this self supporting
type of operation resulted in the creation of a financial reserve fund
of over $40,000.

. Professor 8. H. Caldwell returned from his NDRC assignment in 1945
and again assumed his former position as active Director of the Cenmter.
The post-war yeers 1546-47 had a devastating effect on the previousliy-
mentioned finsncial reserve. The volume of computational work was sharply
curtailed during this period, but the operating staff of the Center was
not materially reduced. As & conseguence, the two-year period 1948~49
wvere very trying years from the financial standpoint; and during this
period, the IBM Group and the Hand Computing Group were separated froa the
Center.

In March, 1848, F. M. Versuh was placed in charge of the punched-
card group. After a period of reorganizationy it appeared that the loss
of one of the principal clients of the IBM services, the A. D. Little
Company, would create a seriocus operating deficit in the punched-card
section. As a result, a decision wvas made to discontinue the punched-card
section, and 2 letter terminating the existing IBM machine rental contract
was sent to the IBM Corp. in May, 1949. Fortunately, Dr. Stratton learned
of the situation in time to presvent dissolution of the goup, and at his
direction, the IEM punched-card facility was reactivated on July 1, 1849, and
the group began operation as 2 separate computing facility under D.I.C.
sponsorship. Finally, onr July 1, 1950, the Administration set up the IBM
group as an Administrative Office -- the O0ffice of Statistical Services.

It also became apparent that the originsl 6-Integrator Differential
Analyzer was no longer reguired at M.I.T., and consequently it was pre-
sented to VWayne University in July, 1949 where it is still in operation.
Berly in 19492 the Differential Ansiyzer CGroup (the last remaining section
of the Csmter of Amslysis) was asbout to be dissolved because of financisl
difficulties. Fortunately, in June, 1949, a countract was initiated with the
U. 8. Air Forces which provided the necesssry fimancilal assistance needed
to continue its operation. In July, 1948, F. M. Verzuk was slso placed in
in charge of the RDA group and was faced with the problem of hiring a new
operating staff. (The former group of Messers. J. L. C. Lof, H. Morash,
G. Eunstedt, M. Coate, etc. had been released.)

A new operating staff consisting of Messrs. J. M. Ham, and H. ‘B.
Grossimon were hired and trained, and the new RDA group consisting of
Professor Cealdwell, Messrs. M. Forbes, L. E. Frost, J. E. Goos, H. E.
Grossimon, J. M. Hem, F. M. Verzuh and Misses E. Collins, S. Conway, and
E. Tamm experienced an effective year which resulted in the following major
additions to the RDA: