H.I.T. Computatioh Centexr . Page 3 of 10

Title of Position: IBM CARD PUNCH OPERATOR

- DUTIES

‘10

2.

Card Punching: transcribes numeric or alphanumeric data onto punched cards by
operating the Type 011, 024, or 026 Card Punch Machines. By means of the caxd
punch machine, the original data is converted f£rom the source document into holes
din gn JBY cavd. This is a manual operation in which the cperator reads the
manuscript and, by striking appropriate keys, converts the information into punched

‘holes in the card. This operation is somewhat more sutomatic than that acccaoplished

by a typist employing the touch system since the mechine feeds, positions, and
ejects the cards automstically. The operator merely concentrates on striking the

correct key at the right time.

Card Verifying: to insure the accuracy of the key pumching, a separate machine is
available to ckeck the accuracy of the work. This mgchine is called a Verifier.
The operation of this machine ig very similar to the key punch (>hysical outward
appearances are almost identical) and a key punch operator is expected to operate
the Verifier. A Type 056 Verifier is used in this office to check the accuracy of
the original key punching. Usually,a second operator verifies the key punching by
depressing the keys of the Verifier while xeading from the original source data.

This is basically the same type of operation as typing or operating the card punch,

Ferformance: a successful key punch operator is one who ean achieve nigh speads

of operation and at the same time maintasin a veascnable degree of accuracy. High
accuracy naturally will minimize the amount of error-correction effort which wust be
expendod ., As a maiter of fact, in certain operations the neced for verifying is
eliminated whemavisual check of the listed vesults is made. This implies that
certain key punch operators soocn learn to list cards on the IBM Tabulstor -- merely

‘a push~button operation reguiring no knowlwdge of the Tabulator, wiring, operation,

etc. These results are listed and visually inspected for accuracy. (Note: not

all jobs can be handled in this manner.) The important point here is that the key
punch operator has a definite responsibility for the accuracy of her work. Obviously
ell succedding machine operations will be of no value if the input key punched

material is in error! Thus a2 high degree of accuracy is essential in the card

proparation stages of any RDFM operxration.

QUALIFICATIONS

L.

6.

Educational Background: high school education or egquivalent is a prereqguisite.

Natural Ability and Aptitude: a high degree of menual dexterity is desirsble in
this job and, of course, normal or corrected vision of 20-20 is required.

Previous Experience: knowledge of typing is helpful but not an essential pre-
requisite for this posgition.

Technical Skills: an experienced card punch operator may qualify for advanced
salary based on proven previous performance —- a proficient caxrd punch operator
will average 10,000 key strokezs per hour.

Compatibility: because the work is done on an individusl tasis, compatibiiityis
not of prime importance. On the other hand, there is definite need Zo be able to
receive work, complete the assignment, and release the product in a graceful and
friendly manner. Good teamwork is essentisl.

Physical Appearance: A welle-groomed appearance is degirable.