Minutes of the Eighteenth Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation
June 7, 1951

Persons Present: R. R. Everett, Z. Kopal, C. Lin, P. M. Morse,
| and fH. Relissner

Morse announced that the next meeting of the Committee would
be in Dr. Strattonts office 10:00 A.M., Wednesday, the 20th of
June. The agenda at that meeting will be a discussion of future
plans for the ONR contract and for activities in the general field
of computing machines for next year. Morse suggested that Pro-
fessor Martin be asked to come to the meeting to discuss possible
Mathematics Department plans.

Relssner brought up a new applicant for a part-time assistant-
ship in the machine field for next year -- Mr. B. F. Handy. He
recommended that the Committee approve this appointment, and, after
discussing the candidate's qualifications, the Committee did
SO BPRroVa. It was to be left to Mr. Iverett and Professor
Reissner to see Mr. Handy and to decide as to whether landy!s ap-
pointment as a half-time assistant should start about July first
or whether Handy should be employed as a full-time DIC staff member
on the Whirlwind Project for the summer, going on the half-time
Math. Department appointment at the beginning of the Fall Term.
Reissner 1s to notify Morsel!s office as to which decision has been
made.

Morse reported that Verzuh had completed his Math. minor
program by obtaining a zrade of C in M39. He said that Verzuh
feels he will be ready for his general examination about the fif-
teenth of July. He asked Kopal to notify Professor Wiesner that
Verzuh!s examination is coming up this summer so that a proper
date could be set for the oral part of this examination. Morse
wlll write a note to Professor Martin, recuesting the Math. De-
partment to supply a written part on the appropriate subjects in
mathenatics to be taken before the oral. The oral part will be
on selected voplcs in electrical engineering and on computing
machine operation and computational methods.

Tha next meeting of the Committee will be on June 20, as

mentioned above,
Philip~M.- Morse, Re

Chairman


