v

M.I.T. Computation Center

Minutes of February 7, 1858 HMeeting
Q Persons Present: D. N. Arden P. M. Morse 7. M. Verzuh

G. T. Hunter B. Rankin

Morse read the proposed notice regarding applications for research assistantship
and research associateship which is to be sent out to New England colleges. It was
agreed except for a few minor additions that it was correct in its present form and
would be released in the very near future. Some discussion was devoted to the minimum
aumber of hours which such gppointees would actually spend on the M,I.T. campus. it
was suggested that a minimum of 10 hours per week be spent at M.I.T. doing ''service
type" operations. However, more thought must be given before an equitable arrangement
can be established for all participanis.

In a discussion of the various training courses on the 704 operastion which are to .
be held, it was agreed that the previously discussed three-week course should be revised
to a two-week course given at i§.1.T. - This course would consist of three hours of lectures
each morning, and three hours of problem sessions (in groups of 10) each afternoon.
gSince the registration would probably be oversubscribed, it was suggested that it be
limited to 30 non-MIT participants and 30 MIT participants with preference given to
asgistants and associates who will be appointed on the 704 prograu. Again, the exact

- method of selection of registranis may vary slightly depending upon the actual registration

tigu:‘éﬁ. _After a brief discussion of teaching staff requirements, it was decided that
Arden, Verzuh, and perhaps. Kopley from IDM would present the morning lectures, whereas

5 MIT staff and one person from IBM would comstitute the G-man team giving the aftermoon
problem sessions. It was suggested that preliminary planning for this two-week course
be initiated in April in order to avoid last-minute rushing. Morse will check on the
availability of dormitory space during the last two weeks in August -- hoping to set
the exact date of the course as Soon as possible.

Hunter reported that there will probably be 15 people from participating universities
attending the 10-week New York training course. Furthermore, it appears that ¥Yale will
yun its own 704 course since 15 students have already expréssed an interest for such a

- course on campus.

Since ‘Mr. Sheldon Best is currectly on leave of absence from M.I.T. and on loan
to the 1I.B.M. Corporation preparing FORTRAN subroutines, it was agreed that he should
be notified to expect to joim the M.i.T. group approximately July 1, 1956 if not soomnsr.

Hunter reported that there were a aumber of revisions in the complement of machines

'which.are to be installed in the M.1.T. Computation Center. For example,. magnetic core

capacity is to be increased to 32,000 words, a Typée 407 with FORTRAN character wheels

is to replace the previocusly-mentioned 402 accounting machine, and the Type 604 is to be
deleted from the list. Verzuh indicated that s Type 650 Calculator is an essential part
of such a computation center, and it was suggested that Hunter examine the possibility of
its inclusion since it is certainly needed in the service bureau for the solution of
certain types of problems. The 1.B.M. Service Bureau in New York currently has four
Type 650 machines available and in view of the recent I.B.M. anti-trust decree regarding
service bureau operation, it seems advisable for us to have a 650 at M.I.T. Hunter will
prepare a statement regarding the exact machine complement and agsociated equipment which
igs to be in our 704 installation.

The next meeting of this group will be held in Room 6-109 at 2 p.m. on Tuesday,
February 14, 1956. '

¥, M. Verzuh
FHV:nb February 8, 1956