MITCC-3 | #.1.T. Computation Center

® Minutes of February 21, 1956 Meeting
Porgons Present: D. N. Arden G. T. Hunter F. M. Verzuh
¥. B. Hildebrand P. H. Horse Pa

After a brief review of the summdr schedule and a statement on the
704 course which will be held August 20-3L, 1956, sn attempt was made to
set the date for the numerical anplysis lectures which sre to be given
by Professor Hildebrand. It was estimated that approximately 16 people
fyom the Whirlwind and Statistical Services staffs would be present, and
that the total enrollment would be less than 25 people. The exact date
of ihe class will be set in the near Zuture.

Hunter reported on his visit to the University of Rhode Island, end
stated that Professor Niels Rorholm, Assistant Professor of Agricultural
Feonomics, will act as Liaison Representative at M.I.T. on the 704 program.
Rhode islend will probably not apply for research sssistantships and
associateships this year .

Morse discussed the agenda for the meeting of the Institutional
Representatives and suggested that the following items be considered at our
next meeting:

& i. Select six (6) sgency committee members for the 23 institutions,

 

3. Rank file available applicants Zor research associateships.

 

Morse indicated that the Computation Center would probably be set up
| similar to the present Center Zor International Studies which would allow |
the Director to appoint staff members without recourse to departmental |
| affiliation. |

gunter inquired about the proper procedure ov vigiting various institutions
during the spring term, and it was agreed that the firet few visits would be
made jointly by Morse and Hunter, and other visits would be made after March 195
ag required. Howaver, & luncheon meeting will be held with Prof. G. Orcutt,
Harvard University, on Friday, February 24, 1956. A meeting with Professor
Esgignmann, Northeasiern University, will be set up SOWe time next week.

 

| mhe next meeting of this group will be held in Room 6-109 at 2 p.m. on
Tuegday, February 28, 13856.

| F. M. Verzuh
| Februgry 23, 1956

FMV:nb


