COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

t of the vent t
; Academic Year -

Pergons Presents C. W. Adams, S. H. Caldwell, C. Co Lin,
P. M. Morse, and E. Reissner.

Adams brought up the question of training the new
assistants in the machine techniques next fall. He polnted
out that the staff of Whirlwind would be considerably more
busy next fall than they were last fall and that it would be
difficult to arrange special courses for the assistants. It
was soon apparent, however, that only a small number of the
new assistants were completely unfamiliar with computing ma-
chines and that these completely new men could take some of
the regular courses in the subject and could work with the
older assistants so that the staffs of the machine projects
would not be burdened with extra instruction. It was agreed
that this would work out satisfactorily.

Morse reported that the Physics group had taken on
several long-term projects involving the tabulation of useful
functions which could be used for backlog work and for train-
ing for several years. It was suggested that perhaps the
Mathematics group could set up similar long-term projects
which thelr new assistants could take on partly for training
and partly for producing additional results.

Reissner reported that Bennington had been appointed
& half-time assistant in Mathematics, but that archer had de=-
cided to take a teaching assistantship rather than one of the
Machine Research assistantships. Morse reported that Story
who was appotntec last time had written, relinquishing his
appointment. Caldwell brought up the possibility that some
of his work in Boolean Algebra of Computing Circuits might
involve the need of asslstance from graduate students dolng
theses in the field. He pointed out that this was possibly
a field which merited support by the Committee. It was agreed
that the Committee would consider specific suggestions from
Caldwell when he had particular appointments in mind.

It was suggested that the Computing Seminar be con-
tinued during the summer, perhaps every other week, to take
advantage of the summer visitors who are to be here. Morse
will take this up with Rublnow.

Tel

At


This was the last regular meeting of the Committee
for the spring term. Morse may call a special meeting during
the summer if anything of importance turns up.

Je Morse

Chairman

H=7=52


