Minutes of the Sixth Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computatio
January 3, 1951 gs

Members Present: H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester, 2. Kopal, C. Lin,
and E. Reissner

The Committee, in the first part of its meeting, continued
the discussion of courses presently available at the Institute on
numerical analysis and possible additions to such. In the Mathe-
matics Department there are two such courses: (1) M54, which
deels with such topics as numerical and graphical methods and
elementary numerical enalysisy (2) a course in integral equations,
M631, which contains some applications of nuuwerical analysis to
that subject. There is a course in the kiecnanical Engineering
Departuent, 2.215T. It 1s expected that this would be an advanced
course involving the application of numerical teconigues to the
vibrations of discrete and continuous systems. Forrester's group
intends to offer & course in the Electrical Engineering Department
under the heading of "Special Problems in kKlectrical Engineering®
(6.68). This would essentially be a continuation of the course
Welchman gives. It would be priwarily & laboratory course, which
will emphasize the use of the Wniriwind and will have the intent
of familiarizing the students with its operational procedures.

Tne Committee then turned to & discussion of wanether the
courses on numerical analysis given at tone Institute are suffi-
ciently couwplete. Xopal empnasized the point that the cleavage
of mathematical anslysis and the machine use of same should not
be maintainedy particularly, the problem of how to arithmetize a
problem for a given machine should be treated somewhere. The
Committee tnen outlined a course for Numerical Anslysis for the
equations of mathemztical physics. This can be conveniently
broken up into two parts: (1) Background material which should
include the classification of partizl differenticl equations and
boundary conditions, the proper coordinate systems for each type
of equation and the ways in winich the problem can be formulateds
viz., as an integral or as & variational problem. (2) Methods
which should include perturbation methods, variation methods,
lterations and arithmetization. The discussion of these should
be oriented toward (1) the eventual solutions of the problems by
numerical methods, (2) their range of applicability. It should be
empnasized that all of these methods are inter-related and can bs
used together on a given problem. In the problem of numerical :
anelysis one is interested in corbining the process of aritmmetilza-
tion with other members of this group. In concluding the dis-
cussion on this course, it was empnasized that the guestion of


Minutes of the Sixth Meeting of the
Committee on kachine Methods of Computation  =Ze

personnel to teach it needed to be settled before one could de-
lineate in more detall what the course should contain.

The Committee next turned to contracts. It was agreed that,
implicitly or explicitly, contracts should contain provisions for
the support of educational activities end researcn. These should
be flexible. The contract for Whirlwind was discussed. Here the
Government contributes the major fraction of its support. The
understanding is that the machine would be available nalf-time for
educational activities, although it is not explicitly stated in
the contract what the actual time fraction is. The contracting
agency has, at times, brougat in outside &s well as inside groups
who nave an interest in using the machines for calculations. These
were generally sclentiflc in nature, thougn not all were in this
category. The use of machines by members of the Institute working
on other contracts for the Government was discussed. It was felt
that if the problem 1s of & fundamental scientific nature this
should be included in the category of machine time for educational
and scientific research. On the other hand, it was felt that no
contract at the Institute should be drawn which depended on the
essential existence of a machine without further discussion.

The next meeting will be January 10, at 9:30 A.id., in Room
6-109. The above discussion will be continued, and, in addition,
the program for the Computation Seminar for next term will be
considered.

Ai icid Fastiocly

Herman Feshbach


