Reprinted from
QUARTERLY or APPLIED MATHEMATICS
Vol. XI, No. 1, April, 1953

TWO NEW NON-LINEARIZED CONICAL FLOWS*

BY
J. Hi GIESE (Ballistic Research Laboratories, Aberdeen Proving Ground, .lld.)

AND H. COHE (Wayne University)

1. Introduction. A steady compressible non-viscous ﬂow is conical if it contains a.
verlex P, such that on every half line through P the velocity components, pressure,
density, and entropy are constant. Various linearized conical ﬂows have been discussed
by numerous authors. However, only three examples of non—linearized conical potential
ﬂow ﬁelds are known to exist mathematically: Prandtl—Meyer ﬂow around an edge [4]1
with or Without sweep; Taylor-Maecoll ﬂow about a non-yawing circular cone [5]; and
an axisymmetric [low through a convergent nozzle discussed by Busemann [1]. In this
paper the construction of two new examples will be considered. Both contain two regions
of swept Prandtl—\Ieyer ﬂow. In the ﬁrst, the boundary has been chosen to prevent
them from interacting, and the hodograph is one-dimensional, From it can be obtained
a ﬂow, with attached plane shock, over an object- resembling an airplane with a swept-
forward wing of positive dihedral and with a thick ﬁn, In the second, the boundary has
been chosen to permit interaction and the hodograph is two-dimensional. It was studied
originally in the hodograph space by one of the authors [2]. In the present treatment, the
need to consider possible difﬁculties in constructing the ﬂow ﬁeld from a knowledge of
the hodograph has been avoided by conﬁning the discussion to the physical space, It
should also be remarked that in both examples the second order partial differential
equation for conical potential ﬂow is of mixed type.

A pair of these examples could conceivably be used to study a particular, atypical
case of wing~body interference. Numerical results can easily be calculated, if necessary,
with the aid of a characteristics table and by means of standard techniques for numerical
integration of ordinary differential equations and numerical solution of characteristic
initial value problems for second order hyperbolic partial differential equations in two
independent variables,

2. Fundamental Ideas. The velocity potential function of a steady irrotational
non-viscous isentropic ﬂow satisﬁes

(#6., — 1L.u,)62¢/B.r, 6x, = 0 (2.1)
where .1),- (t = 1, 2, 3) are rectangular coordinates,
u; = dip/(91‘; (2.2)
is the velocity component parallel to the cal-axis in units of the maximum speed of ﬂow,
52 = 1/2(“/ — 1X1 —‘ um.) = 1/201 — 1X1 — (12) (23)

is the square of the velocity of sound, Kronecker’s delta 5,, = 1(0) if i = Oi) j, and the
convention has been adopted that repeated indices imply summation over their range.
If g2 = u.u_- > (12, the ﬂow is supersonic, and there exist real characteristic surfaces,
which are envelopes of the Mach cones

[MK-72’? — idlz = (<12 - a2)(r*. — x.)($’f — 1‘.) (2-4)

‘Received April 17. 1952.
‘Numbers in brackets designate references listed at the end of the paperi


_—ﬁ

102 J. H. GIESE AND H. COHN [Vol XIl No. 1

where x’f are running coordinates At these surfaces the partial derivatives of (a. of the
second or higher order may have discontinuities while to and zip/62:.- remain continuous,
as may occur when two solutions are patched together. .

The image of a ﬂow under the mapping :5.- —’ u:- lS deﬁned to be its hOdOEMph. In
general, three-dimensional ﬂows have three—dimensronal hodographs, but not the ex—
amples in the following sections. Flows with one (two)—.d1mens-iona1 hodographs have
been called simple (double) waves. The relevant properties of Simple waves, discussed
in [3], will be summarized brieﬂy, For some function Mac), u; = 1M“). Now (2.1) implies

a’uﬁué = (an/f = (990’ (2.5)

where u; : du,/d;r. The hodograph is any curve obtainable from a Prandtl—Meyer epi.
cycloid by deforming its plane into a cone with vertex at u,- = 0. To specify the curve
completely an additional equation and initial conditions are required. For example, in
a swept Prandtl—Meyer ﬂow the velocity component parallel to a ﬁxed unit vector 1..
must be constant, that is,

u.)\. = constant. (2.6)

In the physical space the prototype of the hodograph point u.(p), a surface it = constant
which also bears constant pressure, density, and entropy, is a plane normal to u; . The
exact locations of the prototype planes in the physical space are as yet undetermined
If all are forced to pass through a common point, the simple wave will be a conical ﬂow.
Finally, note that a prototype plane is a characteristic surface, all of whose Mach cones
are congruent and have parallel axes.

Now let

Xa = r../z(a = 1, 2), z = $3, w = us (27)

Later it will also be convenient to use X = XI , Y 2 X2 , u = u; , and v = u2 . Note
that to a point (curve) in the X ,Xg—plane there corresponds in the 50,--space a line through
(cone with vertex at) the origin. Consider a general conical ﬂow with vertex at the

origin. Since u, = Bra/6.7:. are homogeneous of degree zero in the :c, s, (,9 may be assumed
with no loss of generality to he homogeneous of degree one. Then for some <1)
.w = zoom , X.) (2.81
11.. = ago/6.1". = O<I’/6X, , 'IL‘ = ao/az = (I) — Xaua (2.9)
2 (ab/ax. a.” = (fr/0X" as}, , z age/6.x“ a: = —X, ago/0X. 6X,
: age/oz2 = XaX age/ax“ 9X (2.10)

and (2.1) becomes

[“29“- + 3337:) — ("a ~ zvXaXU: — mm] ago/6X“ 6X, : 0, (2.11)

Characteristics for (2.11) are Curves X“ = XQU.) in the X,X2-plane on which the partial

derivatives of (b of second or higher order may have discontinuities, While (I) and ae/aX.
remain continuous. To these curves there correspond cones .ral/z = X°(t) on whirli, by
derivatives of v) of second or higher order will have
S: While by (2-8) and (2.9) so and ago/ax. remain continuous.

(2.10) or its analogs the partial
corresponding (list-ominuitiv

 

 

lame that


1953] TWO NON-LINEARIZED CONICAL FLOWS 103

Thus x,/z = X ., (z) are conical characteristic surfaces for (2.1). A plane tangent to one
of them along the ray x./z = X... must be tangent to the Mach cone (2.4) based on
u.- = 14,-(X, , X2) with Vertex at the origin and must correspond to the tangent to the
characteristic Xa = X.(l). Hence the characteristic directions for (2.11) must be those
of the lines through (X, , X2) tangent to the conic

(uaX’S + w)? = (91 - a2)(X’§X§ + I) (212)

with running coordinates X:. The type of (2.11) is hyperbolic, parabolic, or elliptic
accordingly as (X, , X2) is outside, on, or inside (2.12). For a conical simple wave (211)
is of hyperbolic type (except possibly on a curve on which the type is parabolic), with
straight characteristics. Furthermore, a region of hyperbolic type adjacent to a region
of uniform ﬂow must be a conical simple wave.

3. Flow along a conical wall. It is well known that swept Prandtl—Meyer ﬂow over a
dihedral angle can be generalized into simple wave ﬂow past a curved cylindrical wall.
Now a generalization to simple wave ﬂow in a trough with boundaries composed of plane
and coniCal segments will be discussed.

Consider uniform supersonic ﬂow along a plane wall on which l is a line inclined with
respect to the direction of ﬂow by more than the Mach angle. Let P be any point on I.
Extend the boundary beyond I as a cone through I with vertex P, and eventually join
the cone to another plane segment. Attempt to ﬁt a conical simple wave to this boundary.
Let the origin of coordinates be at P. Describe the boundary by

x, = 71;,(u) (3_1)
where r and It are independent, With no loss of generality assume
0,1),- = 1, ufvf = l, (3.2)
Then
vyf = vai’ = 0, IAU,” = —l. (3.3)

Assume that the prototype planes pass through the rulings of (3.1). Then
air. = 0 (3 .4)

and the boundary condition on the cone becomes u. = Av.- + Bu: for some scalar func-
tions AW) and 300- By (3.3) and (3.4) B = A’, so

11:00 = AMINO-l) + A’Wﬁ'ibl). (3.5)
Now (2.5) becomes (1214”(1‘1’UI’ ~ 1) : (xl’2 — a2) (A + A”)"’, where

. l ,

a‘ = '2'” — no — A? ~ :1"). (3.6)
For any curve on the unit sphere the curvature v.“ u,” g 1. Also, as in Prandtl-Meyer
flow with leading mlge v.91), the normal component of velocity 11’ g a g 0. Assume
that the simple wave is an expansion. Then A’ (A + A”) Z 0, and

[Lima/1;? — 1)”? : (A + mom” — (19)“. (3.7)


104 J. H. GIESE AND H. COHN [V0]. XI, No. 1

The initial values of A and A’ depend, of course, on the original velocity and orientation

of l.
The prototype planes through the origin satisfy

u.’(;z)x.- = 0. (3.8)

Join the velocity field (3.5), (3.8) to uniform ﬂows at both ends. Let s be any streamline
not on (3.1) which does not intersect the envelope of the prototype planes, deﬁned by

x,- = Tn.(p), nin’, = mu? = 0, um.- = 1. (3.9)

Such streamlines exist if (3.1) and (3.9) do not intersect. As the second wall of the trough,
also composed of plane and conical segments, choose the cone through 8 with vertex P.
A special example of this type of flow can easily be derived from a Prandtl—Meyer ﬂow.
Retain as one side of the trough the plane walls of the original boundary, and use a
conical stream sheet for the other wall.

4. A conical simple wave. Insert a half plane into a uniform supersonic ﬂow at a
moderate angle of attack, and make the angle between the leading edge and the un-
disturbed velocity greater than the Mach angle, On one side there will be a swept Prandtl-
Meyer ﬂow around the leading edge On the other there will be an attached plane shock
wave behind which there will be uniform ﬂow (supersonic if the angle of attack is not
too large) parallel to the half plane. Throughout the entire ﬂow the component of velocity
parallel to the leading edge is constant. Introduce a coordinate system with origin on the
leading edge, z-axis parallel to the undisturbed velocity, yz-plane parallel to the uniform
ﬂow behind the shock, and hence normal to the shock. Discard that part of the ﬂow on
the side of the yz-plane that contains the downstream half of the leading edge. Reﬂect
the remainder with respect to the yz-plane. So far the boundary, shown in Fig. 1 together

Y

   
       
 

Undisiuvbed

Velocity
Boundary

: Shock

Figure I Shock and Tentative Boundary

with the shock, consists of a dihedral angle with congruent. sectors removed from each
face. Since the two halves of the shock are coplanar, the uniform ﬂows on the compression


1953] TWO NON-LINEARIZED CONICAL FLOWS 105

side join continuously. On the expansion side uI is double valued in the yz-plane. This
l difﬁculty can be avoided by modifying the upper side of the boundary as follows.
First, examine the hodograph of the swept Prandtl-Meyer ﬂow. In Fig. 2 let 0N*

   

Plane ‘ll'
Normal 10

Leading Eda!

0“ all
the r.
Pmlt 7 ,c _ x
in Slim
ck i313
hate
in out
3 “NR: \ Leading
e ﬁn: ‘ Edge

 

allele Figure 2 Hodogruph of Swept
Wm Prondti‘vever Flaw

be the undisturbed velocity in the yz—plane, and let I\' be the projection of 1V" onto the
plane II that passes through the origin and is normal to the leading edge, During the
expansion, the component of velocity normal to II remains equal to XX" While the
component parallel to H traces an arc NE of a Prandtl-Meycr (lpivycloid, shrunk by a
factor (1 » l\7N*2)‘/2. Fig 1 shows that the .r s under the plane boundary, so the
angle AOE is acute. Hence the cpicycloidal are AE cannot have another intersection
with the line NS, parallel to 04. Now construct the hodngraph by subjecting every
point of NE to the displacement NNl" Clearly, during the expansion from ON* to OE”‘
the angle between the velocity vector 00* and the yz-plane 1H) steadily increases
(decreases).

Now let A be the intersection of :c = O and the plane Mai-h surfaces that pass through
the leading edges and are based on the undisturbed velocity. Let P he any point on A.
From the nature of the hodograph it is clear that the streamline through P for the simple
wave in :c g 0 turns immediately into 1‘ > 0 and stays there. Hence an entire conical
stream sheet through A bends into a: > 0. Thus it is possible to separate the two regions
of swept Prandtl-Meyer flow by means of a symmetrical conical (in, the thickness of
which increases with increasing sweep. Note that at the junctions of the ﬁn and the
original boundary a, is parallel to 17, i .\C(‘Ol'llil near the corresponding points X“
(2.11) is of elliptic type. On the other hand, for \'ci_\ urge values of X0 near the boundary

edit!” (2.1)) is of hyperbolic typci
Boom?!"


106 J. H. GIESE AND H. COHN [Vol. XI, No. 1

To obtain from this boundary a ﬁnite obstacle resembling an airplane, symmetrically
terminate the wing, as in Fig. 3, at a trailing edge which is supersonic with respect to the
uniform ﬂows adjacent to both sides of the wing. On the lower side there will be an ex—
pansion around the trailing edges. The ﬂow ﬁeld just described will be unaffected up to
the ﬁrst Mach surface in the expansion fan emanating from the trailing edges. In par-
ticular, the leading edge shock will cease to be plane at its intersection with this surface.
On the upper side there will be a shock attached to the trailing edges, ahead of which

   
   

Undistnrbed

Flow

A
In.

 
  
    

Figure 3 Schematic Representation of Finite
Obstacle in Simple Wave Flow

the original ﬂow will be unaltered, If the trailing edges are straight, as in Fig. 3, the
shock and immediately following flow for either half of the wing will be conical with
respect to the corresponding wing tip. Possible trailing edges for the ﬁn would be its
intersections with the trailing edge shocks. If a thick wing is desired, the upper surfaces
need not be parallel to the lower surfaces, Finally the upper surfaces need not even be
plane, but may be cylindrical or even conical, with vertices at the Wing tips However,
after such changes the simple wave ﬂows cease to be conical with respect to the origin.

5. Interaction of simple waves [2]. Return to the stage of the (liscussion at the end
of the ﬁrst para aph of Section 3. Examination of F' . 1 shows that cross sections by
the planes 2 = :l: 1 would have the appearances of Figs. 4 and 5. ER and EL are traces

   

Plane

Shock

  
  
   

X
Much Cone i0! Una

Figure 4 Trace by Z=-|


3, the
al “ill
be its
urine:
even he
were.
igin.

the end
ions by
e trace

 

 

 

1953] TWO NON-LINEARIZED CONICAL FLOWS 107

of the leading edges. The traces of the boundary and shock wave have been shown
mainly to clarify the preceding example. They really have no immediate bearing on the
interaction example, since it will be necessary to consider the possibility of having to
reduce the amount of expansion and the extents of the interacting simple waves. The

Y
L Simple Wave ‘ R Simple Wave

    

Unilorm Flow Uizn

plane PW“I

 

UnIVorm Flow Un
in E,_ Plane Shock

Unilarm Flow Ulu

Figure 5 Trace of Tentative Flow by ZHI

boundary will actually be constructed later. The essential point is that the discussion
starts from simple waves in which all 0 the straight characteristics pass through the
centers EB 01' E1, .

In Fig. 4 the simple waves have not egun to interact so the boundary need not be
altered for z < O. In Fig, 5 they begin to inﬂuence each other along the characteristics
AB,z and A3,, , shown in a magniﬁed View in Fig. 6‘ Since the type of (2.11) is hyperbolic

 

L Gem,“ Simple Wu" H Cemmu Simple Wave
1 Unilorm Flow Um

    
   
  

Uniform Flow
leL

    

Douhlu

 

L Nun-centered
Simple Wave

Uniform
R Non-centered
Simple Wave

Figure 6 Interaction of Simple Waves


108 J. H. GIESE AND H. COHN [VoL XI, No, 1

at A, the characteristics actually extend some distance beyond A as shown. In the
simple waves no and w are known on A3,, and AB L . Hence <I> and 6<I>/6X. are known
by (2.9). The characteristic initial value problem for (2.11) with these initial data will
have a unique solution in some sufﬁciently small characteristic quadrilateral ABRCBL ,
where C may be assumed to he on the Y-axis. Since the initial data are symmetrical
with respect to the Y-axis, so is <I>. Extend <I> beyond BBC as the velocity potential of a
conical simple wave. In general, the corresponding straight characteristics will not be
centered, However, if the double wave ABnCBL is kept small enough, their envelope
and intersections can be kept arbitrarily close to EL , well beyond the boundary to be
constructed later. Between the two simple waves in X > 0 there falls a region of uniform
ﬂow with the Velocity um? of B ,3 . Extend the deﬁnition of ‘I> symmetrically with respect
to the Y-axis. Finally, between the two non—centered simple waves there falls a region
of uniform ﬂow with the velocity ux3 of C’.

It remains to choose a boundary in z > 0. First let U0 , U2" , U2; , and U denote
the points where rays from (0, 0, 0) parallel to u.o , um, , u,” , and um intersect z = 1.
Let G,z on, starting from the right edge of the right hand non—centered simple wave, be
on the line EEK“, . Then an” is tangent to the corresponding plane through the origin.
Let FHGR be an integral curve of the equation dX/(u —— wX) = dY/(v — wY) of conical
stream sheets. The ﬁnal part of the boundary in X > 0 consists of the segment FRUa
which corresponds to a plane to which u. is tangent. Extend the boundary symmetrically
into X < 0.

Note that. near Us (211) is of elliptic type.

It is interesting to observe that an alternation of double waves, simple waves, and
regions of uniform ﬂow similar to that in Fig. 6 also appears in an intersection of simple
waves which occurs when uniform plane supersonic ﬂow expands into an inﬁnite sector.
This is shown schematically in Fig. 7.

 

Figure 7 Schematic Representation
of Inieruclion of Plane Simple
Waves in Divergent Channel

REFERENCES

l. A, Busemann, Die achsensymmehischc krgeli'ge Ubersclmllstriimimg. Luftfahrtforschung, 19, 137*144
(1942).

2, H. Colui, Interaction of simple waves, Bull. Am. Math. Soc, 55, 48 (1949).

3‘ J, H. Giese, Compressible ﬂows with degenerate hadographs, Quart. Appl, Math. 9, 237-246 (1951).

4. Th. Meyer, Ulicr zu'eidimensiomlle Bewcgungsuorgdnge in einem Gas, dax mit Ulla-sohallgeschu'indigkcit
slrbmi, For-schungshelt 62 VDI, 31*67 (1908).

5. G, 1. Taylor and J. W, Mnccoll, The air pressure on a cone mailing a! high speeds, Proc, Roy. Soc, A,
139. 278*3ll (1033).

i

>


