———————————-—————————— a

 

 

5 .
el Kad ~ lak

yo

 

TO: Professor P. HM. Morse

A ‘ $
+4 oily 3 bub
- - wie TW - .

- FROM: F. M. Verzuh
DATE: February 15, 1956 %

SUBJECT: Material for National Science Foundation Proposal

 

In accordance with our discussions regarding the proposal to NSF,
I am enclosing the following information.

Machine Complement of the ¥.I.T. Computation Center

The M.1.T. Computation Center will have a Type 704 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units containing a
total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 4,000 words
of ‘storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alphabetic printer,
and punched carxd recorder as well as the 3 off-line magnetic tape
controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled d card punch, and punched
card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively. Total machine
complement net monthly rental is slightly over $45,000. In addition
to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card machines including
357 & card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers, interpreters, and the
Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate machine rental is in
excess of $ 50,000 per month.

 

The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the M.I.T. installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of universal use.

Biographical Information

Dr, F, M. Verzuh, Director of Statistical Services, has been
connected with the operation of M.I.T. computational work since 1540,
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the utilization
of various analog computing equipment -- differential analyzers, etc.,
as well as a complete line of digital machines ranging from the IBM
Type 601 through the Type 704.

He received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the
University of Denver in 1840, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering
from M.I.T. in 1946, and a ScD. degree in Electrical Engineering from
M.I.T. in 1952,


-D-

In the Office of Statistical Services he is concerned with the
utilization of IBM punched card equipment to fulfill the need of the
H.I.T. educational and research projects. In this connection g
number of research contracts have been executed for various branches
of the armed services. In July, 1855 he was placed in charge of the
cperation of the Whirlwind Computer -- the high-speed machine currently
used for scientific research at the Institute. Again, several research
projects are being conducted using this computer as a basic tool.


