M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER

NEW ENGLAND
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
COOPERATIVE PROGRAM

£
:
§
:
i
f

I.B.M. Research Assistantships and Associateships
in Digital Computing Machine Applications

RESEARCH ASSISTANTSHIPS will be offered to graduate students
in good standing in the physical and social sciences, engineering,
or business, who will serve as technical coordinators between
the new Computation Center at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and the research and educational interests of their
particular institution. For research and liaison at a more
advanced level, a limited number of RESEARCH ASSOCIATESHIPS
will be open to junior faculty members of participating institu-
tions. Stipends will depend upon the school and department
involved.

LE

HEREC FS FEIN Ervin

oan ey
tr

LS ry MASSER SLs LEE
nod 4
fl

Applications for the coming academic year should be made before
March 1 to the representative of this program in each institution.
Awards will be made by the M.I.T. Computation Center before
April 15 on the basis of applications and the recommendations
of each school.

A xa AE A tN ty
Es ris Aas En ~ x x
SUA hE NS EOS SRSA i AN

PA
{

AN

RR
ead AS 2 ES

Madea iid
Sp

A SO St sR chink A a NH GER Bu Sele visas
a » it 54 CT

APPLY TO YOUR INSTITUTIONAL OR DEPARTMENTAL REPRESENTATIVE:

 

(Name)

 

(Department) (Room)


I B.M. Research Assistantships
and Associateships

in Digital Computing Machine
Applications

OPEN TO GRADUATE STUDENTS IN THE PHYSICAL AND
SOCIAL SCIENCES, ENGINEERING, AND BUSINESS

For part time work in the Computation Center of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

in association with the laboratories of participating
colleges and universities in New England.

 

 

M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER

NEW ENGLAND
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
COOPERATIVE PROGRAM

A pplication F OTM for I.B.M. research appointments in digital computing machine appli-
cations, for part-time work at the Computation Center at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
in association with laboratories of participating colleges and universities in New England.

The applicant should complete and return this Form to the Institutional Representative of his school. In
addition, the applicant should submit to his Department Head two Letter of Recommendation Forms which
when completed by faculty members will also be sent to the Institutional Representative. The Representative
will then forward both Forms to the Director of the Computation Center. These Forms should reach the Com-
putation Center before March 1 for consideration of an appointment for the coming academic year.

1. Name ge
(Last) (First) (Middle)
2. Home address

 

3. Address for reply

 

4. Degrees now held
(College) (Degree) (Field) (Year)

5. If you are (or will be) a graduate student: School
Degree toward which you will be working Field of study
Number of years of graduate study you have completed

6. If you are a staff member: School
Positions = re Department
Field of interest

7. This application is for a Research [7] Assistantship; [] Associateship.

8. On a separate sheet, indicate in four sections:

. Your training and achievements in mathematics.

. Your training and achievements in computing machine practice.

. Your training and achievements in the field of your special interest.

. The reasons for your interest in high-speed computation and your plans for using knowledge gained

in this field.

COR

(Signed)

 

(Date)

The Institutional Representative who receives this application should write on the
back of this form his comments concerning the relative standing and recommended
stipend for the candidate.


M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER

NEW ENGLAND
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
COOPERATIVE PROGRAM

Letter of Recommendation for

(Name of candidate)

for an I.B.M. Research.

 

(Assistantship or Associateship)

ber Sh (Name of writer, title, department, and college) I

This letter should include: (1) your opinion of the appli- When this Letter of Recommendation is completed it
cant’s ability, (2) the stipend recommended, (3) the should be sent to the Institutional or Departmental Rep-
estimated time the applicant will have available, and (4) resentative for forwarding to the Computation Center. All
the fraction of the latter time which the applicant will be forms must be received at the Center before March 1 in order to
able to spend at the Computation Center. be considered for appointments for the next academic year.

(If more space is needed, use additional sheets.)

Date meee Signed=—~ ~~ ped TA


M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER

NEW ENGLAND
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
COOPERATIVE PROGRAM

Letter of Recommendation for... > =. ow» ou.

(Name of candidate)

forianl BM Researches ove «ter of oN eg

(Assistantship or Associateship)

 

Te ER A la

(Name of writer, title, department, and college)

This letter should include: (1) your opinion of the appli- When this Letter of Recommendation is completed it
cant’s ability, (2) the stipend recommended, (3) the should be sent to the Institutional or Departmental Rep-
estimated time the applicant will have available, and (4) resentative for forwarding to the Computation Center. All
the fraction of the latter time which the applicant will be forms must be received at the Center before March 1 in order to
able to spend at the Computation Center. be considered for appointments for the next academic year.

(If more space is needed, use additional sheets.)

Signed a ta ge


In connection with the type 704 I.B.M. electronic computer installation at the
M.LT. Computation Center for the use of universities and colleges in New England
the International Business Machines Corporation has established a number
RESEARCH  ASSISTANTSHIPS for graduate students in the physical and social
sciences, engineering, or business. These Assistantships are awarded by the Compu-
tation Center to graduate students in good standing in a physical or social science,
engineering, or business department of a participating college or university, from
those applicants recommended by their schools. The stipend will depend on the
usual custom of the applicant’s department; payments will be made by the student’s
department or school, money being transferred from the International Business
Machines Corporation to the department or school for this purpose.

These Research Assistants are expected to spend part of their time at the M.LT.
Computation Center, learning the techniques of machine coding and operation and
helping to utilize the 704 in the solution of scientific, engineering, and business
problems, including problems of interest to their own departments. Thus they
serve as technical coordinators between the Computation Center and the research
and educational interests of their departments and institutions with respect to
high-speed computation. So that this experience can be given to more people,
the jobs should rotate; it is expected that an Assistantship will not usually be
held by any individual for longer than two years.

There are also a limited number of RESEARCH ASSOCIATESHIPS open to junior
faculty members of the participating institutions. These anticipate research and
liaison in the development of machine applications at a higher level of responsi-
bility and competence than is expected of the Research Assistant. In some of these
cases a fraction of the salary of the faculty member will be refunded to his insti-
tution in order to free the Associate’s time for work at the Computation Center.
It is expected that salary refunds for Associateships will not usually be made for
any individual for longer than three years.

APPLICATION FORMS and LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION FORMS for [.B.M.
Research Assistantships and Associateships may be obtained from your Institutional
or Departmental Representative, whose name appears on the cover of this an-
nouncement. The completed Application Form should be returned to your repre-
sentative. In addition, you should submit to your Department Head two Letter
of Recommendation Forms. Your Department Head (or faculty members designated
by him) will complete the Letter of Recommendation Forms and will send them to
your Institutional or Departmental Representative, who will then forward all these
forms to the Computation Center. Applications for the coming academic year
should reach the M.I.T. Computation Center before March 1.

Decisions on awards will be made before April 15 by the Computation Center,
after consultation with the inter-university advisory committee.

Further information may be obtained from Professor Philip M. Morse, Director of
the M.I.T. Computation Center, Room 26-142, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Cambridge 39, or from your Institutional or Departmental Representative.


