Extenslon of NSF @G2940 Page 4

ENCLOSURE B

Excerpts from Original Prbggsal for Funds

(modified to bring it up to date)

 

Name and Address of Institution: |
W 8
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research:

Research on Digitel Computer Operation and Utilization

Investigation inte the patterns of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods wheredby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studies of
numerical analysis and machine programming metheds, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and présentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such Specific applications of
machine techniques to problems in seience, engineering, and |
administration as will elarify the basie fesearch and suggest new
points of view.

 

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956,

 

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to defermine whether further support is advisable,

Proposed Research - Background Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronie cemputers
in this ecountry. IBM is contributing one of its 70U machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipnment.
IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part of the new Compton
Laborato®y, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Machine Computation Committee.

In addition, the Centep will be avalleble, up to 35 heurs
& week, on the same basis, to othepr colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated their interest in parti-
cipating and have appointed faculty members to be their Insti-
tutional Representative. These Tépresentatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of thelir
institution. IBM is providing some funds for stipends for
graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
scme of this research.