TRIP REPORT
on
I, B, M, Corporation

580 Madison Avenue
New York 22, New York

November 14, 1956

FF. ¥M. Verzuh

zy
November 17, 1956


TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 DO introduction ° o - * 4 o » . a ® ° < ° ° ° v wv ° ° o o ® o 2 1

2.0 Problens fAopocliated with the Removal of Blowers on the
704 Equipment > o a ° 0 e e * ° et < > 2? v 2 ° * % ° ° & > a 2

3,0 Results of the Meoting with Syska & Hennessy Electrical
Personnel 9 2 - < ? © ° "© 3 5 ° 2 a MN <° - ° ° ° ° ° 0 ° ° 0 2

4.0 Results of the Comference at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill . oe
5.0 Results of the Meeting at the Hilitary Providence Division, 3
6.0 Conference On Transceiver Requirements at 520 Madison Ave.. 3

7 0 Conclugion . ? © eo ? + 2? 2 ° ° a ° ® ° » 2 ° ° > 2 ° a * eo 2 3


? TRIP REPORT

Place Visited: I, B, M, Corporation
580 Madison Avenue
Wew York 22, New York Tel: Plaza 3-1800

Date of Visit: Wednesday, November 14, 1956
Visited By: Dr. F. M, Verzuh and Mr. Richard Collins
Individuals Contacted:

Robert Riley, IBM EDPM Sales Engineer = 23 Wo8 st, |
George Travato, IBM EDPM Sales Engineer ~ Jay Thorpe Bldg. (6th floor)
L. ¥, LaRosa, RPQ, EDPM Sales Engineer - Jay Thorpe Bldg. | :
Newcomb Noell, IBM- Poughkeepsie
. Ed Matthews, IBN ~- Poughkeepsie Engineering Div,
- Robert Burns, IBN - Poughkeepsie Engineering Div.
.* Richard Cobb, IBY ~- Poughkeepsie Engineering Div,

Fred Gans, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, 575 Madison Ave. (Pl 89-2123)
Saul Haber, 2 P > " "(MU 6-1960)
Ed J. Benesch, Syska & Hennessy, 144 E39 Street (MU 9-2320)

Jim Church, Syska & Hennessy, Pe TY 5

Nick Graham, Syska & Hennessy Electrical Division

# % & % * $$ H Pp FT &

1.0 Introduction

This meeting was held on the second floor of the iB¥ World
Headquarters (WHQ) at 580 Madison Avenue. Although many items were discussed
during the course of the meeting, the following principal areas were covered:

1. IRM engineering changes and modifications which must be made
on the five 704 machine units prior to installation at the
MIT Computation Center,

2. A discussion of the revision im the duct work requied in
the air conditioning equipment as 2 result of the removal of the
blowers,

3. A discussion of the thermo-couple location amd imstallation
for humidity control,

4, A discussion of the design of the INTERLOCE circuitry location
and installational problems,


Be

5. A discussion of various miscellaneous items such as, location
"of the main power switch, rating requirements of circuit

breakers, CFM and air conditioning requirements for the EAN
area, en

6. A discussion of the installation problems associated with

the Type 650 Magnetic Drum Calculator as discussed in Verzuh's
memo dated November 5. :

problems Associated With The Removal of Blowers on the 704 Bquipment

The four engineers from IBN Poughkeepsie discussed at great
length the many detailed problems which arose when the blowers in the
following units: Type 704, Type 733 Drum Unit, the two Type 733 CORE Units,
the Type 741 Power Unit, and the second Power Unit Type 736 were removed,

The IBM engineers agreed to provide detailed circuit drawings
and a complete set of specifications regarding the size of the holes which
ope to be cut in the steel plates, the exact location and type of thermo-
couples which are to bs located im the various machine units, and the design

‘apd circuits for the INYERLOCE equipment which must be installed for

preventative purposes. -

Syska & Hennessy personnel indicated that they must stop all work
on the installation of the under-flcor duct system until they have had an
opportunity te evaluate the particular design desired to provide the two
types of outlets which are now required. Specifically, one outlet providing
air. conditioned air at Opsi and the second one providing alr conditioned air
at 1 sq. inch psi, respectively.

Results of the HHeeting with Syska & Hennessy Electrical Personnel

Mr, Nick Graham attended this meeting and provided detailed
information regarding some of the design of the INTERLOCE circuit in the
basement of the MIT Computation Center, and during the course of this
conversation it was discovered that the main rating for the main circuit

.preaker was only 125 amperes whereas the rating of 400 amperes Was requested

in the specifications which were submitted to Syska & Hennessy OR
November 11, 1955, This situation is currently being corrected,

Results gf the Conference at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill ~ 2:00 p.m.
Verzuh presented the revised space layout for the cffice area

in Rooms 142, 144, 146, 150 and 132, respectively, which pertains to the

offices and schedule and dispatch areas in the MIT Computation Center.


7.0

Conclusion

Bezults of the Hesting at the Military Providence Division - 545 Eadison Ave.

 

¥r, Tom Daley and Er, Bill Feulin-Fegner were appointed by
Er, Pecyson Hunter to discuss the squipment requirements which IBN is to
provide in the new HIT Computation Center. Verzuh presented a 13-point
checklist Zor consideration Dy ¥essrs. Daley and Neunlin-Fagner, respectively,
These gentlement indicated that they would arrange to visit EIT the last
week in Hovember to prepare smon-the-spot list of equipz=snt needed for the
Computation Center. It must be e=phasized that this list is the list of
equipment which IBM will be providing in the 704 room, reception room,
customer engineering room, EAM area, dark room, IBE-N.E. assistantship and
associateship area, IBM office ares, etc. :

Conference cn Transcelver Requirements at 580 Madison Avenue

Verzuh inspected the two ¢{ransceivers which were instailed at
590 Hadison Avenue for the HBC transceiver nation-wide hookup. Based on
this inspection, it was apparent that we should request that a 4-wire
Bell System circuit be installed in the MIT Computation Center to provide
the necessary telephone connection between Cambridge, Poughkespsie, and
Hew York, respectively. A detailed specification of the transceiver required
has been given both to Dr, Truman Eunter, Cambridge, and the Poughkeepsie
and Bell Tele hone representatives, respectively,

v

The IBM engineering representatives from Poughkeepsie indicated
that they needed several weeks to study and design the necessary double
£langers, etc., circuits which are needed on the six 704 units. As soon as
they have completed this study, they will arrange to contact Syska & Hennessy
in New York, have the 8 & E Group visit Poughkeepsie to definitely insure
that there is no misunderstanding regarding the commitments of either party
as far ag installation of the equipment is concerned. In this connection,
the IBM representatives indicated that they estimate a 10 db reduction in the
noise level in the 704 room if the blowers are removed. RT

 

Inspection of the detailed floor plans of the 704 revealed that
there were a number of emors in the dimensions of the holes underneath the
key units, Specifically, in certain areas the dimensions were so indicated
that if the steel plates were cut, certain units would fall into the steel
floor. As a result of this discovery, Collins notified Cambridge to immediately
stop cutting plates to avoid any errors im hole size and dimension, respectively,


ols

Syska & Hennessy indicated that they would re-design the new duct
equipment and submit their findings to IBM as soon as they have completed
their study. It was impossible to determine how much of a delay in
installation was occasioned by this re-evaluation.

it ie estimated that eight (8) thermo-couples must be installed
on the individual machines to provide adequate protection in case of break-
down of motor snd other aiy conditioning equipment, Similarly, iil was
estimated that a fairly-elaborate INTERLOCK control circuit using microswitch-
operated dampers for control purposes, etc., must be installed and power
removed on an emergency power off" basis to protect the equipment,

Mr. Benesch indicated that although the present air conditioning
requirements of the MIT Computation Center appeared te be in the vicinity
of 76.5 tons, Syska & Hennessy intends to imtall a single, 100-ton unit
for the MIT Computation Center. He indicated that it was not feasible to
inatall two separate 50-ton units es originally requested by Messrs, Verzuh
and Peterson, respectively.

Finally, considerable discussion was made of the possible completion
date of the building and a revised re-scheduling was suggested to insure that
the glass, sluminum, etic,, neaded for the Computation Center part of Bldg. 36
would be available prior to January 1 to insure installation of the 704 as
per present schedule date of February, 1357.

F. M. Versuh
nb November 17, 1956


