/ MIAMI UNIVERSITY OXFORD, OHIO

 

OFFICE OF THE PROVOST August 14 , 1962

Dr, Philip M. Morse

Massachusetts Institute of
Technology

77 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. Morse,

Miami University is planning to institute an undergraduate
trogram in systems analysis as a part of our regular offering in the
School of Applied Science. We had hoped to launch the program this
autumn, but various complications have delayed us until the present
moment with the result that it is probably too late. We are pre—
pared, therefore, to wait untl the fall of 1963 if necessary.

We are seeking a man to teach introductory four—hour courses
in data processing and computing analysis and to plan the remainder
of the four—year program. The right person could expect to head up
the project, although we expect to bring in additional staff later on
which might include a director, if it should be indicated. 1 am en—
closing a copy of the job description.

We would be very much indebted to you if you would suggest
names of persons who might qualify for the position we have available.

With many thanks for your courtesy,
Sincerely yours,
C31. wail )\~[ur1,\

Charles R. Wilson
hbt Provost

Enclosure


UNIVERSITY 01?er

Miami University is seeking s faculty member to organise s. prospective
undergraduate degree program in System Anelyeie in the School of Applied
Science. Candidate should hove PM) or equivalent with both teaching experience,
and practical experience in data processing sud compute". Appointment as
Associate Professor involves touching introductory two senator emcee:
entitled "Introduction to Dots Processing" and "Computing duly-1s"; planning
advanced com-see in System main. "mum; Anelysis. Simulation end Model
Building. Advnnced Dots Processing Application. etc.: Ind public tentim
with business ormlutions end public schools. Selsry - $9,000 to $10.000
for nine months, plus poesibility of sdditionu. $2,000 to $3,000 for summer
school tucking or snple time for privste con-ulting work. Generous fringe
benefit program including ”worship in (mic Stcte Retirement System. group
insurance, Miami, s coeducetimel lute university. has a csupne enroll—
ment of 8,000 students. The villsge of Oxford hse a populstian of 5,000 and
is located 35 mile: from Cincinnati and 50 nilee from Dayton.

Applicants should send renames to Dr. C. R. Wilson, Provost, Mimi
University. Oxford. mio.


