ﬂh

TR e

s
s _,ﬁ;;é{
y ?;{ R

      
     
    
   
 
 
  

     
   
      
     
     
    
      
    
   
   
    
     

 

12 ARTHUR L. LOEB AND HARRY H. DENMAN

instructions and constants are therefore put on one tape, the ‘“program
tape”, the experimental data on other tapes, called .“param.eter tapes.”
The program tape (or tapes, as explained in section 8) is read in first. Sub-
sequently a set of data is read in from the parameter tape. .BOt}'l types of
tapes are prepared by typing the information on a Flexowriter in accord-
ance with the conventions of the Comprehensive System.

Experimental data can be recorded on specially prepared forms. A
mask can be fitted over any such form so that only the recorded numbers
are visible through the windows. Next to the windows are the register
addresses appropriate to each experimental parameter so that the experi-
mental data can easily be recorded on a parameter tape. The parameters
punched out on the parameter tape are: the index of refraction of the
backing, n,, the thickness of the metal film, a, the wavelength of the
incident radiation, A, the measured reflectances, R, and R, , and transmis-
sion of the film, 7 , and, if available first estimates of the optical constants
of the films. Each set of parameters is followed by information causing
the program to start at either point A or point B.

8. Modes of operation. For a flexible application of Whirlwind I to
problems of thin metal films, six modes of operation have been programmed.
The principal program tape contains the information necessary for the
performance of the iterative procedure described in section 6. One mode,
using starting point A, takes the first estimates supplied with the data on
the parameter tape, and improves on these until they fit the experimental
data. Two additional modes, both starting at point B, make use of the
approximate equations to obtain the two sets of solutions when no first
estimates are supplied. Use of the principal program tape produces one
set of optical constants, while a short auxiliary program tape modifies the
program on the principal tape so that the other set is produced. (When
first estimates are supplied with the data, only the set of constants closest
to the first estimates is produced.)

The remaining three modes are used to test first estimates without

- attempting to improve on these estimates (see section 4). For this purpose

a second short auxiliary tape is used in all three test modes which modifies
the principal program in such a way that only one iteration is performed.
The first of these test modes, starting at A, transforms a given set of
optical constants into a set of reflectances and transmission. The last two
modes, starting at B, use the approximate equations to obtain a set of
optical constants; this set is then transformed into a set of reflectances and
transmission. The first auxiliary program tape is again used to obtain one
or the other of the two possible solutions.

9. Qperation. The computer performs two distinet tasks during the
operation of the program:

 

DIGITAL COMPUTER AS A LABORATORY TOOL 13

A. Reading illff)rn}atiorl from a tape and storing this information in the
dorage registers indicated on the tape.

B. Examini.ng the instructions in the storage registers and carrying out
these instructions.

The reading and storing is done through a read-in program stored in the
computer. It 1s possible to alternate the two tasks by means of two features:

1. An order in the principal program can shift control to the read-in
program. This order occurs after the results for film incidence and backing
incidence have been printed out, so that the next set of experimental data
on the parameter tape can be read in automatically. When there is no
more paper tape in the photoelectric tape reader, the computer stops.

2. On a tape, the start information causes the read-in program to cease.
Control is then transferred to the principal program as explained above.

The operation of the program is as follows: First, the principal program
tape is placed in the reader and when it is partially read in, control is
transferred to that portion of the program just read in, so that the com-
puter types the column headings (see Table 1). As soon as these headings
are printed, control is again transferred to the read-in program to read in
the remainder of this program tape. When this is done the computer
stops; other requested program tapes are read in and the parameter tape
is placed in the reader. As soon as the first set of data on the pa.!'ameter
tape is read in, the start information which occurs at the end of this set of
data shifts control to the programs outlined in section 8; the computer then
performs the indicated tasks and prints out the results. The last order of
this program shifts control back to the read-in program so that the next
set of data is read in automatically without another stop (see next para-
graph). The start information at the end of the secon.d set of data Sh.lftS
control back to the computation. This cycle of l'ead-l.n, compute, print-
out, read-in, compute, ete. continues automatically until no more informa-
ion is left on the parameter tape. :
tlogol]sl(kfit n(;;nattapz read-in, t.hep computer can either stal-'t computing z‘t.u.to-
start button is pressed, depending on the position
iteh. Since at least two tapes are to be l'ea.d
omputer stops aft-el" each prograin t«gpc; }::
read-in program which stops the comput@ only o
switch is on. For our programs this switch 1s 1.mtv1ally on',. s0 t Vbt e

- T < read in. The switch 1s turned 0
puter st,()ps after each program tape 1s rea N ot of data on the pa-
after all program tapes are read in; then t'he first se ."0 ata T
: : ‘ - tation starts without mt(.nup

rameter tape is read in and the compu e e ot
read in and the program 1S pertol _
ntil the task is completed as ex-

matically or wait until a
of the conditional stop toggle sw
in for each computation, the ¢

Successive parameters are
' ' : -ator u
Intervention by the computer operato
plained above.

T
T
Fa

[

8

o -
TR

o

-3
A S

\-‘;&1‘- .

X
X v

st

 
 
 
 
  

 
 

-

v

 

 

e,
L v

-,

 

-t ,L'

XS v .

  
 

Ly
JIA

 
 
  

 

¥ -

x>

  
 

s
X

¥ ey

    
  

X

-
LN
v

  
     
     
    
      
     
    
   
   
   

-

20
Lty

-
RSN
T

 
    

e
.
e e
= -
~ -
N <!
SR
-
e

  
 

 

     
   
  

.

\\‘
LA
e

- ‘..
.\}?'\'i:»“'

~
-
<

           
 
     
    
    
     
    
        

-

oy

““““
i '