ge

 

 

Minutes of the Fourteenth Meeting
of the |
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

March 21, 1951

I ersong Present: R. R. Everett, H. Feshbach, Z. Kopal, C. Lin,
= P. M. Morse, and E. Reissner

Morse reported that DIC has approved definite (rather than
tentative) appointments of assistantships in Applied Mathematics
¢nd Machine Computation; they feel the contract 1s near enough
completion to warrant this. Morse also pointed out that, for the
first round of appointments, ecch Deparituent could figure on a
iptal of about $10,000, to be split as it saw fit (five half-time

¢t $2000 each, or four full-time at $2500 each, ett.)

Kopal presented applications for assistantships fors
¥. K. Taylor, Malcolm Frazier, S. Yamamura, D, C. Leigh

The Committee suggests that the Electrical Engineering Department
¢ ppoint Taylor as Assistant in Applied Mathematics and Machine

( ouputation, if he is interested in such an appointment, that
Frazier also be appointed If the Department definitely felt he
vas up to their standard for other like appointments and that ac-
tion be postponed on the other two, to see what other applica-
iilons come in.

Morse presented the application of L. Sartori (already here
zs graduate student in Physics), recommended that the application
be held until we see what other applications come in. Three let-
ters from mathematicians, inguirlng about the assistantships were
turned over to Keissner and Lin to find the wishes of thelr De-
rartment. In one case (2 post-doctoral man) Lin was to get more
tacksround from the man, to turn over to Whirlwind for considera-
tion for his suitability for Adams?! group.

There was a little discussion concerning the administracion
¢f these assistantships. Students in each department would be
s zpervised by the two Committee members from that Department and
would be assigned a specific task from the beginning, though it
i353 understood that progress will not be rapid for the firsi-year
wan, since they will be learning the field. Each student must be


’

s4nutes of the Fourteenth Meeting of the
somnittee on Machine Methods of Computation -2=

‘npressed that he has specific duties, however, and that he must
sresent a written report on his progress each quarter.

The Comanittee will next meet on 11 April unless a rush of
ipplications requires one on 4 April.

Chairman


