cc-16 COMPFUTATION CENTER

Magsachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Hassachusetits

MEMORANDUM
To: Department Heads Date: April 10, 1957
From: P, M, Morse, Director

Subject: Approval of Requests for Computation Time at the Center

 

1. The Center has set up the rule that all research workers,
faculty or students, who wish to use the equipment of the Center in the
courgse of their research, must apply for approval of their computing plans
and for assignment of machine time, using the forms enclosed, Machine time
for unclassified research, connected with graduate education, is free, but
we need the formalism of an application so as to have the chance to look
over computation plans bafore they are started, to see whether they are
feagible and to see whether we can allocate the required time, (Mo classified
work will be dons at the Center,)

2. The Center is asking that each Degpartment Head approve each such
application which involves elther faculty members or students in his department,
before the application comes to us. We feel this added requirement is desirable
becauge: |

1. It gives you a chance to see what use your department is
making of the Center (you may wish to l@ep a record of the forms you
have OK'd.)

2, It gives us the benefit of your judgement of the value of
the proposed research to the educational activities carried on by
MIT., We do not ask you to judge the feagibility of putting the
problem on a computing machine (we will do that); we do ask that
you approve only thogse requests which represent useful resgearch in
the field of your department and which contribute non-trivially to
the education of one or more students.

3. We do not ask that you approve requests for machine time
from DSR projects, involving only DSR staff members in the prosecution
of the research of their project. Such purely project computation,
usually of & more routine nature, will have lower priority in machine
time assignments, will be expected to contribute financially to the
support of the Center, if time is assigned, and arrangements for
this work will be discussed between the Coenter and the Project
Supervigor directly, without needing to bother you, In any case, the
work must be publishable.

4, To approve an application, you should sign in the box on the
right-hand column, marked ''Inst, Rep, Approvel', circled in red im the enclosed
sample, We will not accept an application without such a signature.

5. If you have any questions about these procedures pleagse call or
gsee me or Frank Verzuh,

D -