. A

This call was made
and Mr. J. T. Fl

and deliver them to

universities. They

Prof. W. 8S.
Myr. Horace

 

Prof. 8. H.
Prof. F. J.

 

 

m—)

TRIP REPORT

De. M. A. Shader ~~ FROM: Cambridge MIT €C
University of Maine apa DATE: January 30, 1958

with Mr. J. J. Byrne, Manager of the Portland Office

ynn, Sales Representative, Bangor. We met for luncheon

F with Prof. R. P. Shay and Prof. T. A. Siedlik of the Department of Business

if. Shay had previously made a request for a large quantity
r

of IBM cards for use in a course which Prof. Siedlik is teaching. Afte
discussions with Prof. Siedlik, we were able to deter mine more accurately
his real needs in this matter and Mr. Byrne will order the necessary cards

him. This will be 2a much smaller quantity than

Prof. Siedlik originally estimated. a

The course Prof. Siedlik is teaching in the Business Administration
covers ZAM punch card equipment and a brief discussion of the

Department :

IBM 650. He had requested and received 650 manuals for use in the course.
The course meets three hours per week and is a credit course at the university.
We outlined to them the 704 program at MIT and also the 650 program for

were much more interested in the latter program and they

hope to promote in this field at the university.

At 2 p.m. we met with a fairly large group of representatives from various
departmentsof the university. Here, we covered the main purpose of the visit
to the university. People attending this meeting were as follows:

Evans, Dean of the School of Engineering
A. Pratt, Secretary and Engineer, Technology

Experiment Station

Kimball, Department of Mathematics
Sullivan, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering

Prof. R. C. Chase, Instructor, Chemical Engineering Department
Prof. E. R. Weidhaas, Associate Professor of Engineering Graphics

Prof. J. R.
Prof. O. J.

‘Lyman, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Sproul, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering

Prof. J. Braunstein, Assistant Professor of Chemistry

Prof. J. L.

Wolfhagen, Assistant Professor of Chemistry

a
I briefed this group of people on the current status of activitiesta the MIT CC
outlining for them the type of problems that were being solved here and the

extent of participation by MIT and other New England universities. I told them

of the functions of the Center as it pertains to the University Of Maine. Also,

I gave them a very brief description of our two principle programming systems -

Share and Fortran.

I informed them of the fact that courses were offered here

eer EEE EES SEES SS SSS


at MIT approninaiely twice per year specifically to give swalning And progradems SA
ing for the 704. In view of the great distance between University of Maine and
I outlined for them the possibility of teaching a 704 course at =
University of Maine. I had previously corresponded with Dean Evans on this

 

es Do iat in Tie thoy il) pesbabiy oe | a Coa, gutting 2
=~ University of Maine and the MIT CC is great enough that it appears to ne that
~~ it will be unlikely that they will make extensive use of the facility at MIT.
However, I do feel that training in 704 programming and getting at least a few
of them down Bore to run problems Will fous thet atsreat in evrputing any
serve a useful purpose fo them as a university.

 

I have asked Mr. Byrne to order the Following.» materials for use in the course
which will probably be given in March:

- Quantity = Item : ~~ Form No. ry
20 704 Operators Manual 24-6661-2 |
20 Fortran Primer 32-0306
20 Share Co Pads | 12-6809-1
20 Fortran Coding Pads 12-7327-0

J. FF. Blackburn
1FB/jeh
ec: «» W. FP. McClelland, Eastern Region
Me. W. T. Hamilen, idge
Prof. P. M. Morse, Ml
Pr. ¥F. J. Corbato, MIT
Mr. J. J. Byrne, Portland
Mr. J. T. Flyan, Bangor


