MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
LINCOLN LABORATORY

OPERATING PROJECT LINCOLN

August 12, 1954
TO: Jack Porter, Digital Computer Laboratory, Barta Bldg.

FROM: Se. N. Van Voorhis, Group 23, Bldg. B-381

SUBJECT: Delay Line Computations

This will confirm our telephone conversation of yesterday concerning the
request by Mr. Arenberg for computing time on Whirlwind. As I told you, I have
found since writing my first note that one of the other divisions in Lincoln Labora-
tory does, at the moment, have an order with Mr. Arenberg for a delay line. Lincoln
is, therefore, directly interested at the moment in this problem. Also, as I told
you, we feel that the problem is a very real one and one in which Mr. Arenberg has
good chances of making significant progresse

I spoke with Mr, Arenberg this morning concerning the possibility of ap-
plying other computing machines to the problem. From this, I gather that, while
the financial and contractual aspects of using some other computing machine might
be met in case of absolute necessity, there are still strong grounds for preferring
a machine that is nearby such as Whirlwind. This is particularly true since the
problem is a new and uncharted one and one in which some parilal trials may have
to be made,

I suggested to lr, Arathor that he might talk with Dr. Irving Reed of
the Lincoln Laboratory and discuss the problem with him. As you know, Dr. Reed is
a mathematician who has had a fair amount of experience with digital computers in
the past and, in addition, has had some interest in problems rather close to this.
Mre Averbere said that he would indeed be interested in such a discussion if it
could be arranged.

In view of all this, I think it is fair to say that Lincoln can indeed
support Mr. Arenberg!s request in a fairly positive manner. This, of course, is

contingent on the establishment of the fact that the computing procedure proposed
is reasonable and that the amount of machine time required is not excessive,

PU Von dl.

Se Ne Van Voorhis
SNV:1lam

cc: J. J. McCue

FOR PROJEGT USE ONLY


