PROVISIONAL INTERNATIONAL COMPUTATION CENTRE
—_— :

 

CENTRE INTERNATIONAL PROVISOIRE DE CALCUL

CENTRO INTERNAZIONALE PROVVISORIO DI CALCOLO

Thlbgiammee ROMA - ZONA DELL’ E. U.R. Telsphone
Votre réf: PUM /bf Roma, 2 April, 19 59
Notre réf: CP/955

Dear Sir,

Thank you very much for your letter of December 17, 1958, informing
us that the Computation Center at Massachusetts Institute of Technology
is interested in becoming one of the Corresponding Institutions of the
International Computation Centre. You will see from Document CIPC/25,
which was forwarded to you a short while ago, that the list of Correspond-
ing Institutions has now been approved by our Preparatory Committee.

The general purpose: of this network was outlined in Bulletin No.2-3.
It is of course necessary to define in a much more precise manner the role
of the Centre as a medium for the systematic exchange of information be-
tween Corresponding Institutions. We think that the Bulletin could serve
a very useful purpose if each Corresponding Institution undertook to send
us regularly, in a form ready for publication, news concerning:

a) experience recently acquired in solving certain problems;

b) projected studies for which information would be welcome con—
cerning experience which may already be available elsewhere;

c) important technological progress which has been made or is
being initiated;

d) opportunities for foreign students (holders of Unesco or other
fellowships) to acquire basic or advanced training in the Cor-
responding Institution concerned;

e) possibilities of exchanging staff members, for limited periods,
with institutions in other countries, etc.

Our correspondence shows that many countries and universities would
like to obtain much more information on the practical utilization of com-
puters for scientific, engineering, economic and other purposes, includ-
ing documentation, translation, etc. We should like to circulate informa-—
tion of this kind through our Bulletin, which is distributed free of charge
to more than 1500 persons and institutions throughout the world, but we
can only do so if our Corresponding Institutions keep us regularly informed.

Dr. Philip M. Morse

Director

Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, llass.


In order to discuss this in a more detailed manner, we propose to
convene a meeting of representatives of Corresponding Institutions at A
the occasion of the International Conference on Information Processing,
which will be held at Unesco, Paris, 15-20 June, 1959, and where all PA nd
Corresponding Institutions will certainly be represented. This special |
meeting will be held on Monday, June 22, at Unesco House, and we very
much hope that you or another member of your staff will be able to attend
this discussion. In the meantime, it would be very useful if you could
start sending us news, along the lines suggested above, for circulation
through our Bulletin,

- We are sending you, under separate cover, a copy of Bulletin No. 1°
which contains a questionnaire for the International Repertory of Compu-
tation Laboratories and we would appreciate it if you would kindly fill
this out and return it to us. Shan

Yours sincerely,

FL hell

Pamela Campbell
Personal Assistant to
the Executive Secretary


