Minutes of the Fifth Meeting

. of the

Comnittee on Macihine Methods of Computation
December 20, 1950

Persons Present:s G. S. Brown, i, Feshbaech, J. W. Forrester,
Z. Kopal, C., Lin, P. M. dorse eénd E. hLeissner

The deliberations of the Committee at this meeting were taken
up almost entirely with consideration of tne cases of Verzuh eand
Booton. The Sub-Comuittee mentionea in the last minutes reported
that they nad talked to Verzuh énd made two recommendationss

(a)  Thet Verzuh not be asked to take a regular written
gquelifying examination, but that nis preparation
in his field be checked during the coming term and
Summer by taking at least one course in matnematics
(probably M39), that he start on nis thesls researcn,
particularly in its anslytic aspects and thatl the
end of the Spring or during the Summer he take an
oral on two or three aspects of mathematics or elec-
trical engineering, which will be considered to be
. his official exsamination in the field of his major.
1f he passes this examination and satisfies his
- supervisory coumittee concerning his course work in
mathematics and his preliminsry research on his
thesis, ne will be considered to be ready to com-
plete his thesis and teke his final thesis exzming-
tion.

(b) That, in tne opinion of the Sub-Comnittes Verzuh
would not be zble to carry on this Spring program
effectively unless ne were given full tiume o work on
it. The Coumittee tuen voted tuat Korse should ask
Stratton whetiier it were possible to give Verzuh a
leave of absence, with pay, from his job tnis Spring
so that ne could carry out tiids program, &nd to
recommend to tine Electrical Engineering Depertment
that Brown, Fesnbaci, Kopal and helssner be his
supervisory couwwittee for nis genelral oral exauwing-
tion &end for his thesis. Morse will report to tais
supervisory committee &end to tue Electrical Engineer-
ing Department tihe result of his conversation with
Stratton.

Subsequent to the meeting, Morse saw Stratton and told him the
recounnendations of the Counittee. Stretton is to 1nv¢stigate as to
whether Verzuh can be given leave of absence this coming term, and