HITCC~< H.X.T. Computation Center
Hinutes of February 28, 1956 Heating

Fersons Present: D. N. Arden G. T. Hunter
F. B. Hildebrand P. M. Morgse Y- M. Verzuh

The principal item discussed at this moeting was the tentative
selection of membership of the Institutional Advisory Committee. The
following individuals will be asked to serve on this committee at the next
meeting on March 2, 1956:

Bowdoin College Corgen, Reinhard L., Prof. Matbematics Dept.
~Brown University Pragor, William H,, Prof, Physical Sciences Council,Chr,
Harvard University Orcutt, Guy H., Prof, Economics Dept.

Northeastern Univ.  Essigmen, Martin W., Prof.  E.E, Dept., Head

Tufts University Mead, Leonaxd C., Dean Graduate School
Wesleyan Univ, Hing Tong, Prof, Hathematics Dept.
Yale University van Woerksom, A.J.J., Prof, Astronomy Dept.

It was felt that the above 1ist of seven individuals would do a better job '
a2s an advisory committee than the emtire 23 Institutional Representatives
for obvious reasons.

The IBEI Research Assistantship and Associateship Program was discussed.
Verzuh suggested that the present group of agsistantships on the Machine
Committee program should be gdvised by letter of the availability of the
IBM Assistantships in order that they may spply. Since the present DIC
Project 6915 will terminate effective June 30, 1956, continuing assistantships
nust be financed by other means.

Morse briefly touched on the agenda for the forthcoming meeting with the
Institut ional Representatives (on Friday, March 2) and indicated that
yepresentatives would be informed that IBM Assistants are expected to put in - .
15 hours per week on the job, of which at least 5 hours per wesk would be
gpent in residence at M.I.T. The exact number of hours spent at M.I.T. will,
of course, vary from time to time depanding upon the assignment of the -
individual,

Verzuh pointed out that the present IBM contract provides Zunds for
one cavd punch operator, and two machine operatoxrs for the H.I1I.T. 7-hour
shift. HNo funds are available for corvesponding staff during the secaond
7-hour shift., MNorse indicated that ke would advise Institutional Representatives
of this matier and suggest possible sources for auxiliary funds, such as
National Science Foundation ;s Office of Naval Research, etc.

The next meeting of this group will be held in Room 6-109 at 2:00 p.m,
on Tuesday, karch 6, 1866,

F. M. Verzuh
FMV:nb : February 13, 1956