7"

he needed, in order to find the mom
pertinent references to anticipate both the
claims and the disclosure. For example
although the joint between the heads is
disclosed for use only with beads, he
searched for each of the several differ.
ent joints illustrated, not only betWeen
heads, but in any other type of Structure
where the Eingerforms its joiningﬁmm

The Search

A patentability search by an examiner
requires a simultaneous inqu1rymto many
different aspects of all of the embodi-
ments disclosed in the application. Each
claim presented constitutes a different
statement of what the applicant conceives

 

CHRISTMAS TREE DECORATIVE BALL HANGER

 

one of his inventions to be. AS can be
seen from the quoted claims, many ele—
mental details, and many relations be-
tween two or more details (hereinafter
called interrelational combinations) are
recited both specifically and genericallY-
Each invention, interrelational combina-
tion and detail must be separately searched
for, not only in the field to which the
invention pertains, but also into other
fields of endeavor where any of the in—
terrelational combinations and/or details
are disclosed or used analogously.

The Patent Law decrees, inter alia,
that any printed or published document
may be utilized as a bar to apatent claim.
As the examiner searches, he finds an-
ticipatory publications which are called
references in Patent Office terminology.
He judges the scope of the various in—
ventions claimed in the application by the
references found during the search.

The Patent Office search utilizes a
classification system consisting of a se—
ries of classes directed toward some
restricted phase of a scientific or tech-
nical field. Each of these classes is
further divided into subclasses directed
to some more detailed phase, feature, or
combination of features from that field.
At the present time there are more than
307 main classes and over 50,000 sub.
:éissof-moéeclzgxs] may consist of only a

a thousand subclasses,

In examining this case, the examiner
made an extensive search thru many dif—
ferent subclasses, each of which he chose
because of some detail which he believed

tion in the sameL in a similai:L or in an

uivalent manner.

The Search for Beads

He first directed his search into class
41, ORNAMENTATION, subclass 10, g.
namental Forms, where the case hadbeen

P,
assigned and in which the precise inven.

12

tions as claimed would have been found,
if they were patented. In this subclass,
the Examiner found the references, ex-
cerpts of which will be found in exhibits
2 and 3.

The disclosure of exhibit 2 (3) is a
Christmas tree ornament. It is made by
assembling two semi—spheres and, con-
sidering this joint as an equator, the
ornament has a fixed internal pipelike
structure at one poie designed to receive
a separable fastener part. This was prob-
ably cited to show the structure of the two
part ornamental bead of figure 5 (exhibit
l) with its cylindrical well—shaped, polar
opening for the reception of another fast-
ener part.

The disclosure in exhibit 3 (4) is that of
an ornamental chain, made up from a
series of like links simulating butter-
ﬂies, each of which has a resilient fast-
ening member in the form of two anten—
nae, and a cooperating fastening member
in the form of a hole, these two fastening
members being on opposite sides of the
link. The disclosure states that any
number of these links can be detachably

jOiHed together to form a chain of any
desrred length.

 

This invention relates to a Christmas tree
ornament, specifically a ball ,type ornament,
The invention particularly relates to means for
hanging the ball on a tree. The invention is
particularly well adapted to metal balls which
are now Commonly employed.

The ball generally designated by the numeral
10 is herein shown as made out of two parts 11
and 12, the two parts telescoping one another
about a diametrical ‘zone. The portion 12 is a
hemisphere, the marginal portion 13 of which
fits frictionally over a ﬂange 14 which is formed
to extend from the upper hemisphere portion 11.

The upper portion 11 is formed to have an in—
verted nipple 15 tubular in nature.

A wire hanger 16 is formed to have a central
main shank 17, on the lower end of which is

 

turned angularly and upwardly therefrom a foot
18 to form in effect a hook. 0n the upper end of
the hanger 16 there is provided an eye 19, the
diameter of which is larger than the internal
diameter of the nipple 15. The length of the foot
18 is such that normally the distance from its
point 20 across to the shank 17 is greater than
the internal diameter of the nipple 15.

The hanger 16 is attached to the ball 10 by
forcing the foot end downwardly through the
nipple 15 to cause the foot 18 to fold inwardly
toward the shank 17, and then when the end 20
of the foot is carried downwardly below the end
of the nipple 15, it may springback to its normal
position whereupon the foot 18 is engaged over
the lower end 21 of the nipple 15. The hanger
16 thus can not be withdrawn from the ball 10
without an undue pull being exerted on the
hanger, the pull being far greater than any pull
would ever be employed with the ball 10 hanging
on the Christmas tree, The eye 19 prevents the
hanger 16 from dropping inside of the ball 10.

The juncture of the nipple 15 with the surface
22 of the hemisphere portion 11 is through a
radial bend 23 giving an external rounded corner
which permits the eye 19 todrop somewhat with-
in the nipple 15.

Exhibit 2

13