COH!UTATION GENTBR
. Massachusetts Institute of Technology

January 15, 1960

M.I.T. Computation Growth '
by
Professor Herbert H. Teaser

M.I.T's needs for computation have already outgrown the
available capacity of the 704. The underlying causes for
this disparity giVe every reason to expect that the situation
will worsen at an increasing rate in the future. The outward
manifestations of the situation are threefold: first, a queue
of programmers awaiting a chance to run their problems on the
70“ has developed with a one to two day waiting time for
short runs; second, longer, more ambitious problems requiring
five to six hours of straight running time cannot be easily
fitted into the tight schedule and are thus discouraged;
thirdly, in an attempt to minimize the lengthening queue
which adversely affects programmer productivity as well asto
equitably divide up a fixed amount of machine time among re—
quests which are as of now approximately 30 per cent above
available time, the center has resorted to a system of pri—
orities and percentage cutbacks in time allocations. That
this is not healthy cannot be denied, but there appears to
be no long range solution other than to provide more computa-
tional capacity, both through improved equipment and more
efficient programming systems.

The available time of the M.I.T. Computation Center must,
of course, be shared with the other New England Colleges, wits
one shift of machine time nominally assigned to the other Uni—
versities. In the past, M.I.T. has been able to "spill over"


l.I.T. Computation Growth Page 2.

into this time, but the New England colleges, starting from a
much lower initial usage have all but tilled their half of
the machine as well. .

Before we explore our future computational requirements,
it is extremely important to closely examine the causes for
the growth in usage. Figure (1) illustrates that H.I.T's
usage has steadily grown until it has effectively plateaued
on the total time available to it. The corresponding curve
for New England Colleges, Figure (2), has followed a similar
pattern, but with a smaller growth rate. A much more illu-
minating picture is seen if we note that for the past two
years, H.I.T. has had an almost constant number of users,
about 200 or them, in the sense or active problems. Over the
same period, 5.1.T's use or machine time has continuously
risen until it is new at saturation: An analysis or the dis-
tribution of problems sizes for the period January-June 1959.
Figure (3), shows that the large bulk or users are taking
small amounts of total time for their computation and are
thus acccuting for only a small percentage of the total load.
The bulk of machine time is going to "larger" users who oom—
prise a small percentage corresponding to the total number of
users. The major growth in machine usage is thus due to the
larger users (who, in general, correspond to M.I.T. research
groups rather than thesis users) who are requiring increas-
ingly large amounts of time for their work. They are also
the hardest hit by curtailments in time.

One possible explanation for the relatively small num—
ber of users (out of the total M.I.T. population) is that as
of yet, only a small percentage of the M.I.T. Faculty are
directly availing themselves of the computer. As more and
better programming languages, in the sense of being more ef-—
ficient and closer to the language of a specific field, are
devised, faculty participation is bound to improve particu-
larly in departments where the impact of computers has yet
to be felt. Further, until recently, computer programming


M.I.T. Computation Growth Page 3.

courses were taught as senior and graduate electives. This
year, for the first time, over 200 freshmen are being taught
programming. The impact or this and similar groups is

bound to be felt in an increased number or users in the next
few years.

Before extrapolating out into what H.I.T's needs will
be, let us take a closer look at the major users as of to-
day: In general, these people are using advanced program—
ming systems, such as LISP (for symbolic manipulation),
DYNAMO (for industrial dynamics), OOHIT (for language trans-
lation) and FORTRAN (for mathematical computation) rather
than basic machine codes such as SAP. These programming sys-
tems were explicitly designed to make problem statement and
programming far simpler, by placing most of the detailed
coding responsibility upon the machine. As a result, people
are attempting more ambitious (and time consuming from a
machine point or view) projects, The exploitation or these
systems is, in general, in its infancy.

Not only are time requirements growing, as can be seen
from a typical set of problem growth curves on Figure (h),
but in many cases, the capacity or the 70h is no longer suf-
ficient to handle certain classes or problems, even with an
immoderate amount of running time.

The reasons for this become clearer if we take a closer
look at the types of research problems of current interest.
These problems seem to fall in the following general areas:
(a) Nonlinear partial differential equation problems with
more accuracy required in a finer mesh of volumn cells; (b)
Simulation problems involving more variables and parametric
variations; (c) Generalized language translation problems
involving large vocabularies and contextual meanings; (d)
Simulation of intelligent behavior, problem solving, theorum
proving, pattern recognition, analysis; (e) Man~machine in—
teraction; (f) Large scale data reduction; (3) Optimization.


M.I.'.l‘. computation Growth Page 1!.

All of these seemingly disparate areas have very much
in common. First of all, they no longer are primarily com—
putational in nature. In general, they all have a 128!
large information processing and retrieval aspect. That is
to say that they all require almost s. random access to a
huge amount of information and spend much time in reorganiz—
ing that information. The penalty for lesser access times
and smaller core memory is an inordinate cost in machine
time. Secondly, these areas are all pointing in the direc-
tion of not only computing an answer, but in repeating the
process many times in order to gain a best answer and
eventually toward gaining an insight into why it is the best
answer. Clearly, a large number of small machines cannot
answer this need. What is needed is a very large capacity,
high speed computer that has large information processing
capabilities and can be time shared, 1. c. multiprogramed
such as a stretch class computer. the stretch has not only
far greater memory and computational speed than a 704, but
in addition, is a far more efficient information processor
than the 70k which was designed to handle only numbers, and
is quite poor at finding, or rearranging information.

Let us examine a. few of the research areas that are
currently hampered, and whose future growth is out of the
question unless the general capacity that we have discussed
is provided.
leather Forecasting-Professor Charnez

Weather prediction for a hemisphere of earth, using a
very rough model takes on the order of 21% hours of 70“ time
for a 24 hour prediction. The reason for this is that the
model must take into account topographical features, heat
balances, moisture contents, etc. at many many points, both
at and above the earth's surface. Long range forecasting is
thus clearly impossible on the 7014. As a result, progress
in this area must remain slow until a faster machine is
available.


H.I.T. computation Growth Page 5.

Molecular Quantum Mechanics-Dr. u. Barnett
Dr. Barnett is attempting to predict through molecular

quantum mechanics the chemical and vhysical behavior of
gases and fuels. To handle even a simple case, involving a
molecule of 5-6 atoms with, on the order or, 20 electrons
would require about 50 hours of 70h time. The basic reasons
for this order or time requirement is that the potential
functions are highly specialized and complex, which in ma—
chine terms requires a large amount or storage, easy access
and very fast computation.
Crystalogggghio Data Reduction~nr. K. Barnett

Dr. Barnett is attempting to enable physical chemists
to infer molecular structure from orystalographio data. The
problem again requires large processing requirements because
it is essentially an iterative process, requiring for each
of the many possible molecular configurations, the computa—
tion of electron densities that would correspond to the data.
Since even the electron density computations are involved,
and there are a large number of molecular structures with a
given set of atoms, the time requirements are clearly beyond
the 704.
Solid State Physics—Dr. M. Barnett

wo predict the electrical and mechanical properties of
a metal or alloy from energy level considerations requires on
the order of 15 hours. Since there is no limit to the num-
ber of possible alloy combinations, this class or problems
alone can clearly keep a very large machine occupied full time.
Mechanical Translation—Dr. Yngve

Until recently, Dr. Yngve‘s group has been occupied large-
ly with development of a programming language for linguistics.
The large scale usage of this language in solving research
problems in translation have yet to be felt by the Center.
As of today, even a moderate amount of translation (which re—
quires mueh relatively immediate random access to a large
dictionary and consideration of contextual meanings) would


M.I.T. computation Growth Page 6.

be beyond the availability or time on the 70“. Translation
with a very large dictionary would. in addition, tax the
Toh's capabilities. Dr. Yngve has not as yet been hampered
seriously other than in the sense or slow programming pro-
gress due to the existence of the queue.

§zmbolio Manipulation (Artificial Intelligence Proieot-Dr‘s

h. Minsyz and J. McCarthy
Dr's Minsky and McCarthy have developed a language for

dealing with logical and same type problems which as of yet
are primarily symbolic (as opposed to numeric) in character.
They are now engaged in applying this language to a large
class of problem solving situations, reanging from chess to
the proof or theorums. One characteristic of such problems
is that they tend to require an exhaustive search through a
large number of possibilities.

The main hope in such problems is that the machine can
either by itself or with on-line human assistance develop a
rule of thumb (or heuristic) to short out the exhaustive
search and trial procedure. This class of problems requires
very fast information processing, combined with as large a
random access memory as is possible to apply their tech—
niques to any sizeable problem clearly can require up to
weeks of 704 time.

Experimental Physics Data Reduction-Dr. D. Caldwell

Dr. Caldwell's work on determining the characteristics
of hyperons (Lambda, D, Pi, Mu, etc.) involves the detection
and computation of certain types of traJeotories from among
10-100,ooo photographs or high bubble chamber tracks.

This problem not only involves a large amount of data,
but has strong requirements for the machine to recognize
characteristic patterns. This type or process (although once
the pattern is recognized the computation is small) can again
severely tax the 704 facilities.


———’f

14.13:. computation Growth Page 7.

Machine Design H Enter-negle- noes

'Hr. Ross is attempting to use a human-eompnter system operat-
ing in real time for optimum design. This'type or program not
only requires a huge amount or program to match the machine

to a human, but has a strong requirement for searching for
optima and communicating back and forth. A problem with this
much or a requirement for both speed and in:ermation capacity
cannot at present is successfully time shared on the 70h. In
addition to the large blocks or time required, no other useful
work can be done by the 701; while the humenudeoieion is gov-
erning. ‘ ' ' ' ‘

Machine Ihiggigg-Dr'e logger, BarnettI at. al. .

Many separate individuals and groups, not tied in with

the Artificial Intelligence Project are working on problems

of Pattern Recognition, Machine Induction and Analysis, and
Problem Solving by Machine. Although the approaches are
widely different, they all share a common requirement for
high speed, large immediate access memories, and large auti-
liary storage requirements which make them relatively in-
efficient and non feasible on a 704.

Industrial EXE§E1°51 0.3., EconometricsI etc.-Dr's Pugh,

BarnettI et. a1.
Problems of Nonlinear Programming, Scheduling, and

Industrial Dynamics are becoming larger, and consequently re-
quiring almost an order of magnitude increase in speed and
capacity. Problems of Parametric Variation and "insight" by
requiring many fold iterations of already long procedures are
bound to make the situation even worse.
Time Shari Pro ect classroom and Remote Com uter Us 3 For
Education and Research-Dr. H. Teager

It is clear that the need for computation is growing
and spreading out at M.I.T. Its use as a classroom ad—
Junct, while as yet unproved, has definite possibilities.


M.I.T. Computation Growth Page 8-

The large problems described, as well as the smaller but
more numerous problems should not be preempted from the com-
puter because of compsttng time requirements of very large
users, including cn-line users. These requirements, when
combined with the need to minimize the waiting time to
actually state and run a. problem on a computer dictate that
a large machine, capable of tine—sharing or multiprogramming
be available. It further dictates that this machine must
have a very large immediate and backup random access storage,
in order to successfully keep many simultaneous customers
content with a fraction of its capabilities.

Our present research in time sharing on the 70“ shows
that a machine can be successfully used in this fashion, and
that the requirements for extension to a full blown system
with a large number or specialized input output devices at
remore locations point in the direction of a stretch class
computer. A large number of small computers are not equiva-
lent both in the sense of having less capacity available to
the user and in the sense of the cost of computation.


gﬂflg J
all"; u
Edi/Ill 4 A
all/l; u
rill/lllllll 3
gig J
Ell/1 N
Ell/1 o
rill/IA. s
if” A
rill/lg a
gig, a
Ear/1%;
gill/AC. A
7/47? u
ﬁzzy/J ..
gar/dz?" J
2/ n
VII/I47. N
gill/J 0

3A

0 0

1959

 

HOURS

 

 

 

USAGE 1§_HOURS

1958

 

 

 

 

 

I.I.T. MONTHLY

 

N. E. COLLEGES MONTHLY USAGE IN

1957

20
15
10
5
200
150
100
50

T

 

 

in Hours

age

 

Table 1. 704 Us


£7; 0/0342:
,occodvrzé 4,;

MM .41 Juan

Percentage of Ulorl

     

A n
J, g .A
Size of Problem "‘

2174/“? /a/r [Qt r/do

   

'ﬂza’w 3

$05184er 4/ 7r ’/
4/4“: b} 445“” 4/.“

s :2“ "é'""?i“”’

J: $ J, A

N 9) RI v
ww- fw ‘m;

 

so ,___~,,_V 7777777 . .. _,_«_. . 7-
Z/E/hgu/xud 0/ way/m
Away? zit) f‘rv’z‘pﬂn/ 5/44.
3 20
3-1
9
a l
1"
A 5
D .-
i 1
u I
° 2
0 10‘;
3’ ‘2
...
a ‘
o ,
O K
I!
a 9
i
i
0L2;- ,
\
.14 I
o 3

 

Size of Problem

 

53% (54'; '
1.1% {1‘ #52:: By


