c) End-of-files encountered on the RUN INPUT TAPE (logical 4) by
read statements will terminate the Job without calling (F2PM).

d) The BSS Control Record has been changed to save a subprogram
storage map in core. The following F2PM request will dump this
storage map:

FORTRAN 1 PM 2 MEVIE) (0,1000), ALL, FF, REV

e) Programmers who have storage limitations and so do not want
(FZPM), must provide a dummy (F2PM) available inp Room 26-0S58,

SESAP

As of December 1, 1960, the version of 9aAD in use at the Center will
produce column binary decks off-line (tape B4) as its standard output., 9AP
users requiring row binary decks must specify that the assembler is to be
run with sense switch 4 down which causes on-line punching .

704 sttems

It is still possible to obtain copies of the Center 704 Systems
Tapes (Automatic Operator Program, MIPMR1, F2PAK etc.) if you feel they may
be of value to you. To obtain such copies you must supply your own tape reels
and, of course, the Center cannot be responsible for their operation at other
installations, 1If interested, contact Mike Solomita, Manager of Machine Operations,

Card Storage

Many programmers are using the output racks in the Run Processing Room
a8 a storage facility. This is a working area and must be used as such. In
the future, any cards left in those racks or in the output tub more than a few
weeks will be towed away at the owner’s expense.

Procedures Handbook
M——___w‘
At the moment, the new Computation Center's Procedures Handbook is at

the printer. Copies should be available early in December. A notice describing
the distribution of copiles will come out at that time .

Saturday Operation
_'——~"-—-—-——-.-....._‘_.-‘_._.‘D

The Center will be open for the benefit of our out-of-town users Saturday,
December 10, If you plan on coming in that day, please contact

Mike Solomita, Mianager of Machine Operations
Room 26-152, Telephone UNiversity 4-6900, extension 4113

so that we may schedule operations., If you have any particular problems
(classes etc.) let us know.