SCHOOL OF INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT =

ESTABLISHED UNDER A GRANT FROM

AN 50, MEMORIAL DRIVE
THE ALFRED P. SLOAN FOUNDATION, INC. :

CAMBRIDGE 39, MASSACHUSETTS :

Dr. Frank M. Versuh
Computation Comer, 26-142

Dear Frank:

Enclosed is an abmotneement for the Industrial
Dynamics Summer Session which will operate during the last
two weeks of August as 1 did last year. i

I presume that it is unnecessarily eisly 10 rile cb
a formal request for computer time but I ‘thought it well to
let you know that we will be needing use of the 704 during
St that period probably for short. intervals in the afternoons.

Sine cevely,

a

JWF: KDB
ce Dr. Philip M. Morse
6-107


industrial dynamics

massachusetts institute of technology summer session august 17 through august 28, 1959


Thus far, management education and
management practice have been com-
partmentalized into such classic
subdivisions as finance, marketing, pro-
duction, and accounting. However, the
major problems of the industrial manager
arise not so much from the separate
components of the company as from how
these interact to produce instability in
prices, production, employment, and
profits. Building on the development of
electronic computers, on military advances
in understanding decision-making and in
using simulation to solve complex sys-
tems, and-on twenty years of research-in
feedback control systems, we may now
develop new ways to analyze the indus-
trial enterprise. Management is on the
verge of a major breakthrough in under-
standing how industrial company success
depends on the interaction between
flows of information (including policies
and decisions), materials, money, man-
power, and capital equipment. To help
provide a basis from which to understand
the forces causing industrial fluctuation,
growth, stability, and decline, the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology
School of Industrial Management will
offer a two-week Special Summer
Program on Industrial Dynamics from
Monday, August 17, through Friday,
August 28, 1959.

 

Outline of Program

This Special Summer Program will
describe new methods of analyzing how
organizational structure, policies, decision
criteria, information distortion, and time
lags in information and material flow
may affect the course of industrial
growth, cause fluctuation in sales,
accentuate seasonal tendencies, and
amplify external economic conditions.
Models of industrial company operation
will be formulated for digital computer
solution.

This Special Summer Program results

uate teaching in the dynamics of eco-
nomic systems, company functions, and
corporate policies, and in programming
computers for industrial-dynamic analy-
ses. For a more complete description of
this approach and its results, see “Indus-
trial Dynamics—A Major Breakthrough
for Decision-Makers” by Professor Jay
W. Forrester in the July-August, 1958,
issue of The Harvard Business Review.

This will be

to method, r
vey course. |
executive, tc
standing to |
approach fou
managemen
managemen
find that the
for further w
preparation f
approach to

Tuition for tt

———from-three years-of research-and grad— $325 duea

of admission
offered. Exer
12 and 2 to

The Program
number of p:
have a wide
with the prol
whole and tt
industrial fur
neering, proc
finance. Pref
who have ha
ferential equ
digital comp
tical or educ:
back control
show industr
extent of trai
computation,

General Information

Admission

In order to maintain highest standards. the enroll-
ment in each Special Summer Program is limited
according to the facilities and staff which are
available. If a Program is not oversubscribed, appli-
cations for it will be considered up to two weeks
before it begins. However, early application is
strongly advised. Application forms are available
from the Director of the Summer Session, M.I.T.

The Institute reserves the right to select those appli-
cants whose qualifications and experience suggest
that they will receive the most benefit from the
Program for which they are applying. Neither admis-
sion nor dormitory reservations are transferable
except by specific Summer Session Office authoriza-
tion, and then only when evidence of the qualifi-

eo __cations of the proposed substitute has been filed

in advance.

A limited number of Special Summer Program
Scholarships are available to defray in part the
Program tuition of members of teaching staffs (rank
of instructor or higher) of other educational
institutions. Requests for such scholarships should
accompany applications for admission.

Payments

Applicants whose admission has been approved

will be notified as early as possible and will receive
Bursar’'s Remittance and Registration Cards. Both
cards. together with full payment for tuition and
housing in check, draft, or money order made payable
to W. A. Hokanson, Bursar, should be returned
immediately to the Office of the Summer Session,
Room 7-103, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts; they must be
received one week before the opening of the Pro-
gram. The amounts of tuition and room rent will be
stated in the notification of admission; both may

be included in one remittance, and both must be

paid in full before the opening session of a Program.
No bills are sent.


SE

 

 

Thus far, management education and
management practice have been com-
partmentalized into such classic
subdivisions as finance, marketing, pro-
duction, and accounting. However, the
major problems of the industrial manager
arise not so much from the separate
components of the company as from how
these interact to produce instability in
prices, production, employment, and
profits. Building on the development of
electronic computers, on military advances
in understanding decision-making and in
using simulation to solve complex sys-
tems, and on twenty years of research in
feedback control systems, we may now
develop new ways to analyze the indus-
trial enterprise. Management is on the
verge of a major breakthrough in under-
standing how industrial company success
depends on the interaction between
flows of information (including policies
and decisions), materials, money, man-
power, and capital equipment. To help
provide a basis from which to understand
the forces causing industrial fluctuation,
growth, stability, and decline, the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology
School of Industrial Management will
offer a two-week Special Summer
Program on Industrial Dynamics from
Monday, August 17, through Friday,
August 28, 19589.

 

Outline of Program

This Special Summer Program will
describe new methods of analyzing how
organizational structure, policies, decision
criteria, information distortion, and time
lags in information and material flow
may affect the course of industrial
growth, cause fluctuation in sales,
accentuate seasonal tendencies, and
amplify external economic conditions.
Models of industrial company operation
will be formulated for digital computer

solution.

This Special Summer Program results

 tomthreeyearsof roscarch-and-grad— $325_due-and payable upennetifieatien—————————

uate teaching in the dynamics of eco-
nomic systems, company functions, and
corporate policies, and in programming
computers for industrial-dynamic analy-
ses. For a more complete description of
this approach and its results, see “Indus-
trial Dynamics—A Major Breakthrough
for Decision-Makers” by Professor Jay
W. Forrester in the July-August, 1958,
issue of The Harvard Business Review.

Staff

This will be an intensive session devoted This Program is under the direction of
to method, rather than a descriptive sur- Dr. Jay W. Forrester, Professor of Indu
vey course. It is intended primarily for the trial Management. The staff will hi
executive, to give him sufficient under- John L. Enos, Assistant Professor. and
standing to judge the usefulness of the other members of the industrial
approach for his own company. The dynamics group of the M.|.T. School
management science specialist or the of Industrial Management.
management school faculty member will

find that the Program provides a basis

for further work; but it is not sufficient

preparation for immediate use of this new

approach to management problems.

Tuition for the two-week Program will be

of admission. Academic credit will not be
offered. Exercises will be held from 9 to
12 and 2 to 5, Mondays through Fridays.

The Program can accept only a limited
number of participants. Applicants must
have a wide interest in and experience
with the problems of the company as a
whole and the interaction of the separate
industrial functions of research, engi-
neering, production, marketing, and
finance. Preference will be given to those
who have had mathematics (through dif-
ferential equations), an introduction to
digital computer programming, and prac-
tical or educational contact with feed-
back control systems. Applications should
show industrial experience and the
extent of training in mathematics, digital
computation, and feedback control.

Programs marked with an
asterisk (*) are of one
week's duration; those with
a dagger (1) are of three
weeks’ duration. All other
Programs extend through
two weeks

2.118
2.16S

3.418
5.16S
17.74S
20.825

M37S

2.14S
2.18S
5.17S
17.75S

2.158
4.69S

2.128

6.59S

15.518

156.81S

15.918

2.13S

2.17S
4.05S
4.68S
21.08S

6.53S

6.57S
8.23S
15.218

1.36S

Special Summer Programs

Beginning Tuesday, June 16
Industrial Photoelasticity *
Bearing Technology

Beginning Monday, June 22

Corrosion”

Infrared Spectroscopy: Technique *

Mechanical and Physical Properties of Plastics*
Food Protection Factors in Modern Food
Technology *

Applications of Probability Theory

To Operations Research

Beginning Monday, June 29
Modern Thermodynamics
Combination of 2.14S and 2.15St
Infrared Spectroscopy: Applications *
Adhesion: Theory and Practice’

Beginning Monday, July 6-
Direct Conversion of Heat to Electricity
Institutional Expansion and the Urban Setting*

Beginning Tuesday, July 7

Strain Gages: Fundamentals®

Quantitative Approaches to the Study of
Neuroelectric Activity

Controllership: New Developments in
Analysis and Control

Planning Marketing Strategy and Tactics
Organization for Research and Development

Beginning Monday, July 13
Strain Gages: Applications”®

Beginning Monday, July 20

Materials for Parachute and Retardation Devices
Aesthetics of Surfaces

City and Regional Planning

Scientific and Engineering Reports *

Beginning Monday, August 3
Finite- and Infinite-State Machines

Beginning Monday, August 17

Reliable Long-Range Radio Communication
Plasma Dynamics?

Industrial Dynamics

Beginning Monday, August 31
Shear Strength of Soils

SN —
ASN SEG


a NT EL

General Information

Admission 0
In order to maintain highest standards, the enr

ment in each Special Summer Program Is limited
according to the facilities and staff which are
available. If a Program is not oversubscribed, appli-
cations for it will be considered up to two weeks
before it begins. However, early application IS
strongly advised. Application forms are available
from the Director of the Summer Session. M.LT.

The Institute reserves the right to select those appli-
cants whose qualifications and experience suggest
that they will receive the most benefit from the |
Program for which they are applying. Neither admis-
sion nor dormitory reservations are transferable
except by specific Summer Session Office authoriza-
tion. and then only when evidence of the qualifi-

__ cationsof the proposed substitute has been filed
in advance.

A limited number of Special Summer Program
Scholarships are available to defray in part the
Program tuition of members of teaching staffs (rank
of instructor or higher) of other educational
institutions. Requests for such scholarships should
accompany applications for admission.

Payments

Applicants whose admission has been approved

will be notified as early as possible and will receive
Bursar's Remittance and Registration Cards. Both
cards, together with full payment for tuition and
housing in check. draft, or money order made payable
to W. A. Hokanson, Bursar, should be returned
immediately to the Office of the Summer Session,
Room 7-103, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts; they must be
received one week before the opening of the Pro-
gram. The amounts of tuition and room rent will be
stated in the notification of admission; both may

be included in one remittance, and both must be
paid in full before the opening session of a Program.
No bills are sent

 

Those whose tuition is to be covered by contract
with a government agency or with industry should
apply for admission to the Office of the Summer
Session in the usual way, as promptly as possible,
noting on their applications that a contract or agency
approval is being requested. At the same time they
should arrange to have the agency send a purchase
order or other evidence of its intention to authorize
tuition payments to the Office of the Summer
Session. This purchase order must reach the Office
of the Summer Session at least one week before
the Program begins. It should include the full name
of the prospective registrant(s), as well as the
name of the Program. If it is not sent, and if the
Program is a limited one for which others have

applied, the Institute reserves the right to cancel
admission.

Since housing charges (if any) are not covered by
government contracts, these payments must be
received independently from prospective registrants
at least one week before the beginning of a Program

Please note that a contract from industry or a
government agency does not reserve a place in a
Special Summer Program; it must be preceded or
accompanied by a completed application for
admission

Refunds

Registrants who notify the Summer Session Office
of cancellation of their plans before they arrive in
Cambridge will be refunded their payments
However, no refunds of either tuition or rent will
be made to those who leave before completing a
Program in which they have been registered, and
refunds of room rentals cannot be made for
Saturdays, Sundays or holidays during a Program

Registration

Each person admitted to a Program should report
at the Summer Session Office, Room 7-103, at
8:30 a.m. on the day that his Program begins. At
this time he completes formal registration, receives
a receipt for payments, and is given cards of admis-

 

sion to the Program. Detailed information about

special M.I.T. facilities and services will be available,

as will printed guides to Metropolitan Boston and
other New England regions

Mail and Messages

Registrants for Special Summer Programs may
have mail and messages addressed to them at the
Office of the Summer Session. Please have the
name of the Program included in the address.

Dormitory Accommodations

The M.I.T. dormitory system will be available to all
registrants in Special Summer Programs. Rooms
for single men, as well as a limited number of
accommodations for married couples and single
women, will be reserved if specifically requested in
the application for admission. Applicants who wish
other accommodations should correspond directly
with Boston or Cambridge hotels

For single men or women, the housing rate in an
M.IL.T. dormitory is $4.00 per person for each
24-hour unit, beginning at 6 p.m. The rate for mar-
ried couples is $3.00 per person. In general,
reservations will be available from 6 p.m. of the
Sunday night preceding the opening of a Program
until 6 p.m. of the Saturday following its con
clusion. Dormitory reservations will be confirmed
in the letter of notification of admission; this letter
should be presented at the dormitory upon arrival.
Please include payments for dormitory accommoda-
tions with tuition payments, made at least one
week in advance. Registrants in Special Summer
Programs should make no rent payments at any
dormitory office.

Each House is open 24 hours every day. Children
under twelve years of age may not be housed

in any dormitory during the Summer Session,
nor are pets allowed. No dormitory employee is
authorized to modify these regulations

College dining facilities on the campus will be
available to Special Summer Program registrants

and their guests. In addition, there are restaurants
within easy walking distance of the Institute, and

many famous eating places and hotels of Metropoli-

tan Boston are situated just across the Charles
River.

Free outdoor parking space near the dormitories
is available during the summer for those attend-
ing Special Summer Programs.

Recreational Facilities

Summer guests are welcome to use the Insti-
tute’s libraries and recreational facilities, including
tennis courts, softball fields, squash courts,

the Alumni Swimming Pool, and a fleet of small
sailboats operating from the M.L.T. Sailing Pavilion

Within easy access of the Institute campus are
some of the world’s finest museums, libraries,
and art galleries. The famous Hatch Memonal
Shell, outdoor summer concert hall for the Boston
Pops Orchestra, is just across the Charles River
Basin. Major League baseball games are sched-
uled throughout the summer at Fenway Park,
only a short ride from the campus.

Several summer theaters and the historical areas
of Salem, Concord, Lexington, and Plymouth

are within easy driving distance, while Cape Cod,
the White Mountains of New Hampshire, the
Green Mountains of Vermont, and many parts of
the Maine seacoast may easily be visited on
weekend trips.

Design by the M.LT. Office of Publications (RC)

art work by the M.LT. lllustration Service. Photon typography by
the Machine Composition Company: production by the M.I.T
Photographic Service

industrial dynamics

Massachusetts institute of technology summer session


