COMPUI'ATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Date: February 10, 1960

Memorandum to: Dr. c. R. DeCarlo, Assistant General Manager,

Data Systems Division, IBM Corporation /
From: Philip Mo Morseg Director, MIT Computation Center
Subject: Replacement of 70” by a 7090

Back round: In June, 1957. somewhat less than three years

ago, an Tﬁﬁ $53 was installed at the Computation Center by IBMa

under a special agreement whereby IBM maintains the equipments
contributes toward amortizing the additions to the Compton Laboratory
which house the Center and supports a number of research assistants

and associates who assist users of the machine” and MIT provides

the staff and operates the Center for the use of MIT and other
cooperating New England colleges and universities. The primary

purpose of the arrangement is to enable students and faculty of

these institutions to learn how to use highnspeed computing machines
effectivelyg so that the next generation of scientists, engineers

and industrial executives will be able to exploit machine capabilities aw
in other wordsy the primary purpose is to demonstrate that such

machines are as important a part of the educational equipment of a
modern college as are chemistry laboratories8 for exampleq A

secondary purpose is to foster research in the use of computing machinesy
particularly in those fields of application which have not yet been
explored or exploited fully°

To this ends priority on 70“ time has been accorded to
regular class use by courses in machine programming and applications9
to students using the machine in their thesis research and to
research projects investigating new techniques of machine use“
Particular attention has been given to making it easy for the out»
oratown users: mail service} special scheduling during visits and

Saturday operation for those who cannot come to Cambridge during
week days°

Present Situation: This program has been outstandingly
success?ﬁT?”EEhce the present memoranduma Class use of the 704
has grown rapidly; at MIT there is now a freshman course in machine
usep four upperaclass and a number of graduate courses which use
time on the machineg in addition to the Sequence of special coding
courses which are given by the Center staff during each term and
summer“ A number of other colleges bring some of their classes in
for one or more laboratory sessionso Class use will expand further;


‘2?

 

but its expansion will be hampered by the limitations or access
to the Yet, as will be discussed later.

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded

rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their work

including their class exercises). But this use tends to be self»
limiting for, as soon as a college faculty begins fully to apprecu
late the possibilities in education and research of computers, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campus,
By now at least eight of the cooperating institutions have machines
of their own, These are smaller machines, of the 650 type, (with
some larger machines projected), so these institutions still come
to the Center to use the 70k for their bigger Jobs; but it does
mean that the use of the Center by the other ﬂevangland colleges
will tend to level off to a reasonable load (about one shift, it
now appears) rather than growing continuously, as the MIT usage is
doing, This result, of course, is in accord with our conviction
that computers should be as prevalent as chemistry laboratories.

In contrast, the MIT use of the 704 for research into new
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy all
requests for machine time for such work, let alone routine proJect
calculations of the "production-run" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which has
heretofore been reserved for IBM use. In addition to the research
in solid—state theory, in meteorology and oceanography, which now
depend completely on machine computation and could already use more
time than we can allot them, there are a number of research projects
which are basic to the development of new uses for computers, and,
indeed, to the development of computers themselves, which are already
handicapped by shortage of machine time and limitation of 70#
capacities, To mention a few:

Programmin Develo ment. The Center staff has already
develops an automa ic opera or routine which is being adopted by
other 70h users, More general assembly programs; such as the
Linking Segment Subprogram Loader, which combines Fortran, SAP and
other special codes; COMIT, which enables the 70h to be used on
language translation problems; and LISP, which enables the machine
to handle nonanumerical logic, such as algebraic and other symbolic
manipulation, are being developed and tested. The work at MIT in
this field, since Whirlwind days, is well known.

Timeasharing Techni ues° We already have a typewriter
connected to the—75H, which works on a timeusharing basis with our
regular operator routine, so new programs can be debugged at the
same time that regular computations are being carried out on other
problems, for example. The 704 cannot effectively accommodate more
than one or two such satelite channels, but the Center staff is now


a}-

at work on the design and programming required to provide a 7090
with 10 to 30 such 'substation consoles" or various effective speeds
and capacities. which can be placed at appropriate places around MIT.
some perhaps in classrooms. The ultimate goal is to make the fastest
and most sophisticated computer as accessible and convenient to a
person working with it as a dial telephone is. This development will
'not only open up new research areas. as indicated later, but also
will substantially simplify and expedite the process of producing

and debugging new programs. We believe all large machines will
eventually use timeesharing techniques in order to achieve their
ultimate capabilities; thus the research new begun at the Center
will be of general benefit to the development of the computer field.

yachine-guided Education. Computers can, of course, aid in
grading examinations, scheduling classrooms and students and do
other clerical tasks incidental to large classes. But computers
also can be programmed to carry out some of the detailed question»
anduanswer interchange which occurs in recitation sections. The
Center staff is now working with the Language Department at MIT
to program the 70k to guide a student through some of the phases
of learning a new language, and are discussing the possibilities
of training students in the details of mathematical manipulation by
machine. Here the machine would pose questions for the student to
answer and, on the basis of the answers. would go on to other
questions. as in a recitation section. To avoid intolerable cone
gestion at the main input console (and also waste of computer time).
several students must be able to work with the machine simultaneously.
sharing machine time with regular computation. Therefore further
development of this research will shortly require a flexibility the
704 lacks but the 7090 does possess. Potentially. the use of com»
puters will help to solve the problem of giving individualized
training in the sciences at all levels2 without excessive demands
on thc' time of able teachers.

Machineescientist Coo erative Research §Sggerggz. In
addition to the examples ﬂusg mentionedD there are many other research
programs which can only progress effectively if the machine is
able to carry out calculations on immediate demand and display the
result or feed it back immediately into the experiment, so the
experiment or the scientist can go on to the next step and request
the next computation in turn. 0n the 70k this would require the
exclusive use of the machine. though only a fraction of the 70%
speed would be used; obviously again. timensharing techniques are
needed.

These. and many other programs now in progress. such as the
charactererecognition studies. the research on economic forecasting
and on operational behavior using largewscale simulation techniques.


-na

should be of particular interest to IBM, for they have direct
bearing on the progress of computer design and utilization. They
represent the sort of cooperative research between experts in
different fields which MIT does so effectively, and they involve
the combination of research and education for which MIT is pre»
eminent. This work deserves support by IBM, in addition to the
educational activities which are already being supported by the
present contribution of the 70k. They can most effectively be
supported by the installation of a 7090, replacing the 70%, in
the near future; MIT will then be able to provide the ancillary
equipment to push ahead with dispatch. Because of the “inter-
conhectedness' of much of this research it can best be carried
out (perhaps it can only be carried outs in the atmosphere of
mutual cooperation and exchange of information provided by the
Computation Center.

Outlook for the Future: The activities mentioned above
are only a part of the research, at MIT and at the associated .
institutionsE which desires to use the facilities of the Computation
Center. obviously no single computing machine can be itself satisfy
indefinitely the continually grdwing demands from the New England
educational institutions, for all their research and educational
computer needs. However the facilities of the Center need nota
and probably should noty satisfy all the demands; A much more
realistic task would be to concentrate on 1) the educational tasksp
which will be supplemental to the onwcampus small machines for the
other New England colleges and which, for the MIT class needsg can
be improved in efficiency by timeesharing techniques; 2) on thesis
research and 3) on Just those aspects of research which advance the
designp programming and utility of the computer in new fields.
Research programs in other new directions, which involve machine
use (meteorology; nuclear reactor design and the like) should only
be supported by the Center by grants of time while they are in the
formative stages before they are far enough along to be able to
ask for financial supportF for further computation, in their own
rightu By the time they have developed their programs and their
special techniques of machine use, and are ready to exploit these
methods by long "production runs'}9 they should be in a position to
obtain financing to make these runs on one of the several other
similar machines which are or wi 1 be in operation in the vicinityo

Even with this sort of limitation on the useibf the Center
facilitiesg the demands on the Center will growv But the growth,
if thus limitedD sang we believe; he handled by the pooperative
effort of IBM and MITe A 7090 within the year would\not delay most
of the work,outlined above,tooyseriouslya And,7 as outlined belowy
it would be able to handle them for several years, w ile plans are
made for the next stepc 0n the other handy if a 709 cannot be

‘ 4


“,5“

provided soon; several of the proJects mentioned above will have
to terminate or else will have to use other machinesa which would
inevitably mean the dissipation of the Centerﬂs usefulness in
coordinating this sort of research.

It is not intended that the Center should have a monopoly
of all computing around MIT; this would be unrealistic and, as
indicated above, impossible. But it must play an active role in
supporting and instigating research into new applications if it
is to continue to be the focus of new ideas and of exciting activity
which will attract, train and inspire the new generation of
machine experts.

Pro osal: It is proposed that some time during the summer
or fall of I966 a 7090 be substituted for the present 70%. Details
of the specific equipment to be included are already under dis-
cussion with IBM staff. Several data synchronizer channels should
be included, and a disk memory, in addition to a variety of input-
output equipment. In the meantime the Center staff will be preparing
pilot models of the substationp timeasharing consoles, and the
related program modifications so that the time-sharing aspects of
the research can start as soon as possible after the 7090 is
installed. The Center staff will of course continue its close
cooperation with the various IBM research groupsy so the design
implications of the time-sharing developments will be available to
these groups as the work progresses, and so that minor changes in
the 7090, to improve substation effectiveness“ can be made with
expedition and mutual understanding, either before or after the 7090
is delivered.

The total load on the 7090, the work of the cooperating
institutions, the class and thesis use and the machine=use research
discussed aboveP would initially use more than one shift of machine
time3 but probably would not use more than two shifts for the first
year. Consequently it would be possible for IBM» during the first
year of operation; to utilize the third shift in a manner similar
to what was done on the 704 during its first year of operation.

It is likely that this IBM usage would taper offy as it did with
the 70kg so that as the program outlined above expands, it could
eventually use all three shifts (plus Saturdays); the New England
colleges taking up to one shift, the MIT classroom and thesis work
taking up to another shiftg and the newaapplications research takixg
up the rest of the time. MIT would supply the operating and
programming staffs in addition to the management and coordination
with other colleges; IBM would supply maintenance, amortization of
building spacey support of the research assistantship program and
reimbursement of MITVs expenses in the cooperative program.v as it
does at present with the 70%.


