g CC-50-8 Fage I of

MIT COMPUTAT ION CENTER
Massachusetts Inztitute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

 

To: 704 Progranmers Date: WNovember &, 1952
From: Dr, F. M, Verzuh, Assistant Director

Subject: Revised and Up-Dated Index gg.Available Share 704-709 Subroutines

- —— L — T ——

 

 

 

The purpose of this memorandum is to provide a revised and up-dated
index of SHARE-distributed 704-709 subroutines. These subroutine writs-ups
and listings are avellable for use only in the MIT Computation Center Duocument
Room (26-268)., However, the subroutine decks and their listings may be
obtained by submitting & "Card Processing Hequisition” form obtained in the
Scheduler’s Office (26-153). This irndex containg & list of material receivad
as of November 1, 1959, Succeeding issues of this memo will appear with =
new =dition number -- 9, 10, etc., and these will be issued on & guerieriy
basis.

T™his index liste the svailable subroutines im order of their
SHARE catalogue clagsification wbich spposrs in the SHARE Referencs Hauuss
in Section 4.1 dated 10/1/58. Specifically, the attached list congigts of
seven parts:

. A ligt of the SHARE clasgsification cards,

. A 1ist of the subrouiines available on the MIT SAP Library Tap>,

., A list of the subroutinese aveilable on the MIT Matrix Library Taps,
A 1ist of the gsubroutines available on the MIT Fortran Library Taps,
. An index of the 704-709 subroutines,

. A list of the new subroutines received,

. A list of subroutines ou order,

SO

The particular format used in Part 5, 6 & 7 contaipne the followlng fuformation
{reading from left to right):

2, OSHARE catslogue clagsification code,

b, Two-lettsr SHARE imstallation code,

¢. The subrovtine identification code,

d, HName or title of subroutine,

@, The SHARE distribution number (3-digit number),

“

£f. A write-up is svailable unless there is an asgterisk (%) in the ¥ ooluon,

g. A listing is available unless thers is an asterisk () im the L colaw,

h, The letter & indicates that aymbolic cerds are avaliable a2 MIT,

1. The iletter B indicates that abgolinte binary <cards are avellahle

3. The lettor R indicates that anacmimgﬁ' binary cards aye aval

k., The letter F indicatss & subroutine which ig writion ¢ D& Biad
with Foruran,

i, The number 9 indicmtes o subroutine which is written to bo ssed oo
& 709 wrachine,

m, The lettser Z indicates that SQUOZE cards are avaiisihils

&
-
-
>
o
=

FHVY /bE