Extension of NSF G2940 Page 6

Enclosure B, Continued

card-punching, testing and running of their problems. We
estimate $50,000 a year can ecome from payments from other

rojects for the programming service deseribed, leaving about
ยง70,000 a8 year to be obtained from other sources.

The Rockefeller Foundation has granted the Computation
Center about $100,000 for three years, beginning July 1, 1957,
for the support of a staff to dnvestigate applications of
digital computers in the soeial sciences. Thus only about
$35,000 a year is needed to complete the support of the Center
staff, enough to support that part of the staff conecentrating on
the physiecal science aspects of the activity. In order to get
our plans well under way, this grant should be continued for
about three years (as with the Rockefeller grant), after which
tg: program should be re-evaluated to determine needs beyond
t t dateo .

Proposed Research - Possible Initial Directions of Investiggtion

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input languages;

the possibllities of coding directly in mathematical, logical or
business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and auto-
matic error analysis.

5. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; sueh as more
general expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomial sums for
slmulating standard functions by a common block of instructions
but small sep2rate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and
methods of automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial
plus Richardson extrapolation or other means.

4. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques for
communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, ineluding possible
improvements in input-output equipment. |

6. Experimental analysis and control using data trans-
mitted directly between computer and experiment.

7. Investigation of micrcprogramming and other methods for
increasing the flexibility of computer design. The possibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a large=scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.