September 23, 1960 :

Mr, Robert Atkinson
- IBM Corporation - rs

1713 Cambridge Street 3
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Mr. Atkinson:

The purpose of this letter is to present the application of
the School of Industrial Management of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology for the installation of an IBM 1620 EDPM and peripheral ¥
equipment under the 60% educational contribution plan. The paragraphs
that follow set forth the basis for the application. An official Institute
purchase order is being forwarded concurrently. Crap

General Background

‘First, it is clear that the installation of an IBM 1620 in the
Sehool of Industrial Management will make a major contribution to the os
research and teaching programs of the School. The School of Industrial
Management currently has a student population composed of approxi-
mately 200 undergraduates, 150 Master's candidates, 10 Ph.D. candi~
. dates in Industrial Management, 45 Sloan Fellows in Executive Develop-
ment, and during the course of each year some 45 Senior Executives.
Tach of these groups of students will enhance their preparation for
management responsibilities through the direct accessibility to the new
computer installation. In addition, faculty members will benefit by the
close and ready availability of the computer laboratory. The specific
ways in which faculty and students will make use of the computer is
outlined below, but I wish to emphasize here what I believe to be the
general influence of the availability within the School of the computer
on our research and teaching programs. As we look ahead in the next


hE a september 3. 1960

ey ten years, we can state ; that the oHoctiviness'< of the compiler as

applied to management problems will increase enormously. In some

re ‘ways, we are just beginning to relate the computer to information
~~ technology, simulation of decision making, planning and control
processes, and mathematical applications in general in a management

sense, The coming of the IBM 1620 will give us an important start on
these problems. Of course the availability of the IBM 704 in the past
years, and now the IBM 708 in the Computation Center, have been of

2 critical usefulness to the advanced research of Professors Forrester,

Alexander, Kuh, and others. This will undoubtedly continue, but we

ami IRE the-small computer fof Josearch experimentation. and. for the train-
jie 189 of Sur students. Sr

 

The School of Industrial ‘Management hes long had considerable

computational effort in conjunction with a number of courses. Last year

the introduction of a Quantitative Option in both the Masters Program of
‘the School of Industrial Management and the Department of Economics
emphasized the computational content. The new Ph.D. program in In-

dustrial Management offered this fall for the first time will also make

possible more advanced computer applications. The following list rep~

resents courses that will benefit directly from the ready availability of
the IBM 1620, In the future it is likely that Considerably more instruc-
tion in the computer Held will be given,

15. 542 Management Informatio n Syst ems

Study of the structure and related techniques of an information
system required for managing an enterprise. Nature and develop-
ment of the information system and formulation of improved systems.
Introduction to programming a stored program computer and the
technology underlying data-processing equipment, Emphasis on
the use of large-scale digital computers in integrated information
and decision-making systems. Lectures, library research, problem
formulation and solution, programming and operation of an IBM 650
computer and case studies of existing or proposed systems.
Professor James C. Emery


© Mr. Robert Atkinson =
Page 3 Ti
September 23, 1960

 

5 treatment of manageient \decleloasmaking probionis from dver-all
~ system point of view. Study of behavior of firms and industries
by computer simulation of feed-back~type models representing
organizational structure of firm and its basic policies and decision
 griteria. Zmphasis primarily on interaction between flows of a
~~ information, money, materials, manpower, and capital equipment,
i. Application of system-dynamics approach to study of various
current problem areas in industry, including inventory control, Pi
pricing decisions, R and D management, cash flows, and consumer
behavior. Instruction covering elementary feedback systems,
difference equations, and use of digital computers for students’
3 own models. |
wr, E. B. Roberts

18, 581 Industriel Dynamos |

Manasement decision-making weated from over<all system point oi
view; primary emphasis on interaction of separate elements of an
enterprise. Biffects of delays, smoothing, amplification, and noise
on flow of information and material. Dynamic models of production=
distribution systems simulated on a computer and their behavior
‘studied, Background and application from curreni problem areas.
in industry. Subject matter drawn from theories of elementary
feedback systems, difference equations, and probability; student
should have basic ability in these subjects. Acquaintance with
computing machines also desirable. Provision of experience with
automatic programming for computer simulation; opportunity to run
models on a machine.
Professor Jay W. Forester

15.582 Industrial Dynamics II

Continuation of 15.581. Emphasis on techniques of model design,
construction, and testing. Noise: mathematical description and
techniques for generating correlated and uncorrelated noise. Change
in statistical nature of noise on passing through system. Smooth~-
ing and prediction. Design of system to approximate desired
dynamic response. Testing dynamic models in nonlinear limits,
Discussion of additional models not covered in 15.581, Practice


RS Wher os 3 a SER de AE & =),

Se ENC a Tn, Ga b: a

rd ' | . ie 3 A

hg 3 /
“

Page 4:
September 2, 1 1960

£ on : EE pT : “s ro : ; : 3 ‘ . YS fy. i
tells P, he das Se Ved oa . Ther. : aL WL $a 3 nA | hi
. : . = tet ; ON wel | Ie - . ey os A 3
. - eC Reo “a +5 b . : x or a De v } . aX ard 4 n . ad - 4
. . { oh aH [NS RE ELL ENG pe : Ny a why i a -
a Rl bey ad LY 12% 2% "Sl 2 go : - - - i aN .
od Adi : = . Lh ne : . ) ap TTA BA %
- * 3 - .- . « rs . - > - ol a : » v oo , a
r wa a Em pr a rs vo hE, ne EE al J BN oA :
a Fo : rea .’ a wre EN pL i A
. wd » AER ay fe . : fh : Y hws pr .
3 IV . 4 : ’ ‘ a
i wie : % IES jm ’ lh D oy a ; i L es $

ess

TNR = formulating g aynanc models o industrial behavior, L ot
Sn  Professer i Jay 1 We. Forrester

 

Sa Detailed study & Som a mathematical ond Aijoreiis point « of view of
selected topics in scientific management: inventory control,
mathematical programming, waiting-line theory, Monte Carlo
5 “fedhniques, statistical decision theory, theory of games,

as Frofessor Martin Sreenbeiger

 

i Wating-line theory and applications 1 to problems ¢ of industrial

management. Markov processes and flow analysis. Solutions by

~~. difference equations, differential equations, and Monte Carlo
simulation. Exponential, hyperexponential, and Erland distribu~
tions. Emphasis more on practical application and reality of
- assumptions than on mathematical derivation and manipulation.
Examples drawn from studies of inventory control, machine assign-
ment, maintenance, machine balancing, and traffic control.

Professor Martin Greenberger

15, 599 Research Seininar in Quantitative Industriel Management

Research geminar in which student selects a project making sub~-
stantial use of statistics, automatic computers, or other quantita~-
tive tools of research. Project may be relaied to siudent's thesis.
Intermediate oral report to seminar on project and final written
report required. Cuest talks on topics of special interest. General
discussion and careful review of relevant literature.
Professor Martin Gresnbergst

15.78 ‘Btudies in Manufacturing Analysis

Examination of studies from cwrent literature devoted fo formal
methods for analyzing production management problems. Applica-
tions of linear programming, other programming applications, waiting
line applications, applications of incremental analysis, and total
coset and value models presented from the empirical literatures of
management science, operations research, economics, and statistics.

Student seminar responsibilities.
Professor Edward Bowman


Mr. Rober Atkinson
Page §

15.781 Studies in Manufacturing Analysis

Examination of studies from current literature devoted to formal
methods for analyzing production management problems. General
readings bearing on each method of analysis also included, Analysis
of case studies as time permits, Student research Suphasizing. com=-
puters. y

| | Professor Edward Bowman
8.701 perational Mo the Firm

Intensive analyses of selected kinds of management decision
problems that involve interrelationships among functional areas.
Study and solution of decision preblems of rather broad scope by
use of mathematical and statistical methods such as differential
and difference equations, transform theory, calculus of variations,
signal flow analysis, and Markov processes. Relation of theory
and practice. Design of efficient operating techniques based upon
theoretical findings. Student participation in field studies and
special projects. Student research emphasizing computers,

| Professor Edward Bowman

15,832 Demand Analysis ar rketi

Application of quantitative methods to marketing research problems,
with special emphasis on measurement of consumer demand. Usage
of statistical tools of multiple regression, design of experiments,
and sampling methods. Waye of securing valid information from
market respondents, including relevant psychometric techniques.
Computer programs used for data processing where appropriate.
Class project to provide experience in pianning and executing a
research investigation with cooperating companies.

Professors Richard Maffei and Ross Cunningham

In all of the above courses data processing will play an integral
part. In addition, the Marketing Game newly developed by Professors
Tallman, Massy, and King, and Mr. Amstutz, will be used in certain aspects
of two of the Marketing courses, 15.8) and 15,812.

The following additional courses, offered in the Economics
Department by Professor Kuh of the Industrial Management School, will


oT Semmes 2, 1960

es aesatis sb al y from the presen ce of the computer. =

 

 

i Adaptation of statistical 1 sietliads to analysis of SSOnOHIS Problems.
~~ Estimation problems in time-series, such as autocorrelation, least~
squares bias and colinearity, with emphasis on recent econometric
“work. Bach student undertakes quantitative analysis of an economic =
~~. problem, such as estimating consumption=income relationships o or an LaF :

ak ingusay demand. schedule. aie Ra

a 382 Economie Suatistics

Study of selected stati stical techniques fouid dell in recent
economic work, especially the ® fagression snalysis of economic
time series. ah

Pinally, a non-credit piostemming course for graduate students.
ho undergraduate students, executive development students, and faculty
members will alse be offered by Mr. C. Harvey Willson each term. This

course will cover the usage and capabilities of auxiliary equipment; the
basic organization of the IBM computer, aad the Fortran language. The
basic Fortran language has been found sufficient for most computers,
but Mr. Willson intends to go on with certain students groups in covering
programming in Soap 2-A and other languages. Throughout, the student
As. expected to select a program and run an eppIoVed problem of interest
to himself. |

Faculty Research

The second main category of usage by the School of Industrial
a Management will be in the research work of the School and of the Depart-
ment of Economics. The quantitative emphasis within the School of Indus~-
trial Management 1s well known and growing. It is expected thai
Professors Sidney 8. Alexander, David Durand, Ell Shapiro, Edward H.
Bowman, Myron J. Gordon, Edwin Kuh, Martin Greenberger, Paul H.
Cootner, James C. Emery, Thomas M. Lodahl, Richard B. Maiiel,
Zenon 8, Zannetos, and Mr. Arnold Amstutz will all have a direct interest
in the availability of the computer for their own research fields. Largely
these fields can be summarized under the heading of problems in business
~ {inance; in management economics; in mathematical applications to


: i, Beptanber 28, 1960 Sir = n 2

i » rn oa > . - = = Ll . Ya : x ” +e ¥
- as mF Com 3 = & pou . i . - “3 ca Ek :
. . : “. rT p 3 < sw 3 tay . ’- - vies
. . ) . n — fT ae 1 >
3 ‘ - » 3 wi i» vw “3. . 5
. - el i : ' . Y . - T LL a AS tole —% LEY
" . A «A vied; we . - Re ~~ " - NN . :
- » ~ : ie 2 ~~ a " : : ¥ & ; aw - ng . “ : . - ¢
- -~ -e : : ; , ; tay part - 4 i ita 2. oa 5 t ¢
’ , ) : “ d - . v NL, RE Aa, Cap 3
. pr & = x3 af Br : °
¢ oR . ' - 3% 3 - : -
- : : ‘own oa - Ly
1% y Jat yy : '
-

| froduction, aariating: 4 and accounting problems. In addition, as noted

above, substantial work by Professors Tallman, ‘King, and Massy and

Mr. Amstutz has been proceeding in the field of the new management
gaming techniques. Last year for the first time a newly devised game 4

was used in conjunction with our graduate marketing courses and repeated
in our special marketing seminar in the summer of 1960. It is expected
that this will be extended to our students in executive development and |
‘to our undergraduate students. The possibilities in gaming are not yet

well understood, but further experimentation and evaluation is desirable,

 

and the presence of the computer could make possible the gow biocks-
of time for gaming F research and Gevelgpment,. A |

ident sec rch a

Currently the School of Industelal Management is prodiolic a
more than 100 Master's candidates each year, The record indicates

that with an increasing number of candidates each year, there will be

a growing number of thesis proposals which will include use of the
computer, The addition of the newly developed Ph.D. program of the
School, currently enrolling 10 students, will also produce theses in~
volving computer applications > |

Time

Computer time will be scheduled for use in teaching in
industrial management courses and for faculty and student research

problems in industrial management and economics, In general, therefore,

the machine will be devoted almost entirely to academic purposes in the
management and associated fields. The pattern of research in the School
of Industrial Management has not in the past produced supported research
projects, Our policy will be to devote the major portion of prime use to A
academic or unsupported research. Bupported research may in time develop
from special projects in economics or management, but it is unlikely in the
first year. It is likely, on the other hand, that we will need additional
usage on second shifts in academic research.

Supervision and Administration

The installation will be administered by the School of Industrial
Management under the over-all responsibility of the Dean of the School.
Professor Edwin Kuh has been designated as Chairman of the Faculty Committee


Mr. Robert Mkinson a
Page 8 :
2 September 23, 1960 | |

composed of Professors Alexander, Emery, and Grbonbiorger, and will We
directly responsible for the administration of the facility. The Somputer
will be technically supervised by Mr. C. Harvey Willson. =

| Physical Installation and Financing eT

Space for the proposed computing facility will be available in
| the basement floor of the Alfred P. Sloan Building. We have an appro-
priate space for an ‘adequate machine installation that has been already
reviewed by members of the IBM staff, We intend to have associated
with the major room, a room with work space for the key punches, card
storage, and for programming activity, Associated with these computer

rooms will also be a small classroom. Detailed plans for power, utilities, hw

and partitions: have been established,

ow

  

The cost of the teaching staff and stud at use of the computer
will be paid by the School of Industrial Management from the academic
budget, The major rental cost will be largely financed by direct charges
against the research budget of the School. The Installation cosis will be
underwritten by the capital budget of the Institute.

I wish to emphasize again that the School of Industrial Manage-
ment is prepared to effectively utilize the opportunities afforded by the
installation of an IBM 1620 and associated equipment. I am attaching
to this letter as an appendix a complete list of the peripheral equipment
now ordered and to be used with association with the IBM 1620. It is
our intention to utilize this equipment just as soon as it becomes avail-
able,

- 1 wish to express the appreciation of the School of Industrial
Management ior the opportunities already made available, and I urgently
request immediate consideration of our application for a computer ingtalla=-
tion in the Sloan Building as outlined above. I will of course be glad to
provide any additional information required.

Sincerely vours,
Howard W, Johnson
Dean

I ha
IRUIhe, sor Philip M. Morse
Professor Edwin Kuh


