|

GENERAL @D ELECTRIC

COMPANY FLIGHT PROPULSION LABORATORY DEPARTMENT

LYNN COMPUTATIONS

950 WESTERN AVENUE, WEST LYNN-3, MASS, «a pani TELEPHONE LY 8-6000

March 16, 1960

DEAN OF ENGINEERING
MAR 1 7 1960

     
 

Dr. Gordon S. Brown

Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

77 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. Brown:

Recently I visited Mr. John Vitt of your Division of Sponsored
Research, and he told me that several departments at MIT are
doing engineering work and research and development for the
Government as well as for private industry. He also said that
some of the departments are using the TO4 computer there but
are finding it difficult to get time on the machine.

If you have experienced this problem, I should like to suggest
that you take advantage of our Lynn Computations Operation ma-
chine. Our TO4 computer is almost identical to yours and is
availseble for use on either prime or second shift with little
or no delay.

You will receive prompt action on all your computing. Tor in-
stance, we can give you twenty-four-hour service direct to your
office. Data may be picked up there, processed during the night
at Lynn Computations, and returned to you the following morning.
This service is rendered at no extra cost to you.

Our current machine rental rates range from $6.25 to $5.00 per
minute and include the use of all peripheral equipment. No
minimum of machine hours is required, and you pay only for the
time you spend on the 704.

I am enclosing a brochure so that you may become acquainted
with our Operation. If you would like to speed up the pro-
curement of results and profit by General Electric's depth


GENERAL @D ELECTRIC

Dr. Gordon S. Brown -2- March 16, 1960

and scope of experience, please contact me at the address
given below. T should be very glad to answer any questions
you may have Or to meet with you at your convenience.

Very truly yours,

rsd Ll Hse

Business Marketing & Administration Analyst
Lynn Computations Operation

Building 59, Ext. 4655

General Electric Company

950 Western Avenue

Lynn, Massachusetts

HFA: jg
Enclosure


