April 21, 1958

Miss Grace Kohn
Digital Computer Laboratory
Princeton University

- Princeton, New Jersey

Dear Miss Kohn:

Professor P. M. Morse has just shown me your letter of April
9, 1958, to Dr. Seymour Parter, concerning the possibility of your work-
ing at the M.I. T. computing center. Professor Morse, who is in charge
of the computing center, tells me that he does not have any openings directly
just now, but he happened to know that we are looking for a person of your
qualifications in connection with our Solid-State and Molecular Theory Group.
L.et me describe the sort of work we do, and the type of opening we are con-
sidering.

We have a theoretical group consisting of about a dozen persons--
myself, Professor G. F. Koster, and the rest post-doctorate and graduate
students. We are working on the theory of atomic, molecular, and solid-
state structure, using quantum-mechanical methods. We have a large variety
of problems which we have been solving on the Whirlwind Digital Computer;
several of the past members of the group programmed these problems, over
a period of a number of years. Now the Whirlwind is being given up, and we
are switching to the 704, and it is a very large job to reprogram our work
for the 704. Some of the present group members are working at this, but
there is so much to do that we need extra help. We are looking for some-
one with about your type of experience who would be interested in working
into the group, and helping with this programming. As I said, several
present members of the group are familiar with the methods we use, but they
are busy with other things, and cannot put in enough time to do the program-
ming themselves. However, they can be of great help in guiding the work.
Also, we are trying to get an additional senior person, if possible, who is
familiar with these particular problems, who could work for most of his
time with a person of your experience.

I notice that you are working on your thesis, and would hope to have
part of your time free for your own problems. I see no reason why this can-
not be arranged, provided you could put in a good amount of time helping us.