Minutes of the Third Meeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

December 6, 1950

Members Present: G. S. Brown, H. Feshbach, J, W. Forrester,
Z. Kopal, C., Lin, P. M. llorse and E, Reissner

Professor Heissner reported on the procedure for doctor'!s
cendidates in the Department of Meathematics., A written quali-
fying examination, similar to that in Physics, 1s given, usuzl-
ly at the end of the first year. This is based on the materiel
in five undergraduste and beginning graduzte coursess Algebra,
Analysis, Geometry, &nd two terms of Complex Variables. The
Committee felt that little modification of this preliminary ex-
amination would be needed for men wishing to obtain & degree
from tne Mathematics Department in Numerical Analysis. Perhaps
a few less questicns could be asked in Complex Variables and
Geometry, and a few guestions could be added on Numerical
snalysis, or Machine lethods or on Physics, but tnut the modi-
fications could be taken up wnen a specific exauple &rose.
ifter some discusslon, it sppeared probable to the Comulttee
that, for the time, most graduate students coming in to the
field of Numericel sanalysis would pe fairly well grounded in
the undergraduate subjects of eitner the Matnematics course or
the Electrical kngineering course, and that tuerefore most of
the students which thls Coumittee might help supervise could be
handled by suitable minor modifications of either the Electrical
Engineering or mathematics qualifying examination. Sooner or
later, of course, &s the Cocumittee beczue better known, cases
would &rise which would not fit these two alternatives. It was
felt, however, thnsat such problems were best treated aszs they
came up. | |

Two specific cases of men in the Mathematics Department
were discussed: Helwlg and Porter. They have taken the neces-
sary undergreduate courses in Mathematics, but they have not
yet taken tneir qualifying written exam. It 1s felt, however,
tnat tnere is no particular problem in their taking the reguler
Bathematics exem, and that the Committee can first help in
tnese cuses in helping supervise taeir thesis resesrch.

At this time, Professor Gordon Brown czme to the meeting
and tihe discussion turned to consideration of the specific
cases of graduate students in the Electrical Engineering Depart-
ment. The following tentiétive decisions and guestions were
realsed: