1020 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

the electrolyte have been added. This is. the value of relative lung resistivity
found by Burger and van Milaan..9 In Fhls case the internal field is not greatly
altered, although the 1-v. equipotentials are changed. The shape of the
boundary-potential distribution curve is similar to that of the homogeneous
section, except that the maximum negative potential is now —0.77 v. instead
of —1 v. This potential reduction may be due to a shielding action of the
sternum, which is directly in line with the dipole axis. Also, the potential-
gradient peaks are lower in amplitude and more widely separated from each
other. In FIGURE 5c, the lung, sternum, and spine sections are completely
insulating. These conditions were also tried on the basis of the experiments
of Lindner and Katz,'* in which it was concluded that the lungs are completely
insulating. Also, if completely insulating lung models did not have too much
effect, then lower values of resistivity would be unimportant. In this case,
however, the internal field is considerably altered. The +1-v. equipotential is
altered in shape, and the zero-potential line is shifted toward the back. The
potential distribution between the lung and spine sections is completely differ-
ent. The bounddry-potential distribution curve is similar in its general shape
to the curves of FIGURES Sa and Sb, but the potentials are negative over nearly
the entire boundary. It might be argued that the changes in boundary po-
tential were due merely to shifts in the voltage of the reference electrode.
Although the reference-probe potential probably did change slightly, a com-
parison of the potential-gradient curves, which are independent of the reference
potential, shows that the changes in potential are due mainly to the change in
internal conditions. In FIGURES Sa to Sc, for example, the maximum slope
values are approximately 0.12, 0.08, and 0.04 v./cm. Due to conditions
of symmetry that exist with g angles of 90° the potential maxima (M) are
located at the ends of the extended dipole axis.

Potential distributions were also measured for other dipole angles, and in
each case it was found that there was not a great deal of difference between
the cases a and b, that is, between the homogeneous section and the section
using lungs with a resistivity ratio of 4. The completely insulating lungs
caused a considerable distortion of the field, however. FI1GURrE 6 shows the
distributions obtained in the sections using dipole angles (8) of 0°, 30°, and 60°,
with a lung resistivity ratio of 4. Ficure 5b, with a 8 angle of 90°, can be
considered part of this series.

As the dipole rotates, the field pattern changes markedly. The zero-potential
points remain fairly close to the dipole transverse axis, but the points of maxi-
mum positive and negative potential (M) do not remain at the ends of the
dipole axis. As Hess" and Schaefer'? pointed out, when the dipole is not at
the center of the section the points of maximum potential lie along a curved
arc passing through the poles of the dipole. It is interesting to note, however,
that a line joining the maxima is roughly parallel to the dipole axis. The loca-
tion of the zero-potential points depends upon the reference electrode’s being a
.lrue null point. On the other hand, the location of the potential maxima is
independent of the reference potential, since a change in the reference potential
would be added to or subtracted from the potential of every point in the field.

FIGURES 6 and 5b also show how the distribution of potential around the

 

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1021

FiGure 6. Field- and boundary-potential distributions in a 2-dimensional thorax section
for 8 angles of 0° (a), 30° (b), and 60° (¢). In all cases the lungs have a resistivity ratio of 4,
and the spine and sternum sections are completely insulating. FiGURE Sb forms part of this
series for a 8 angle of 90°.

boundary changes as the dipole rotates. For 8 angles of 0°, 30°, and 60° the
potential gradient is maximum at the point on the boundary nearest to the
dipole center (0 cm.). This illustrates a possible method of finding the loca-
tion of the resultant dipole of the heart from measurements on the chest wall.