------

,;.have them printed in the Appendix of
- the RECORD. s

g5 =—'EHere being no obJection the address
el ‘was ordered to be printed in the RECORD.
".  (See exhibit B.)

~ Mr. 'MONRONEY. Mr. President, us-
ing our hearings of last Thursday on the
‘aviation bill as a basis, William Cooper
“20f Scripps-Howard Newspapers did an
- _-excellent reporting JOb on the problem
:;;'of air traffic control in relation to air
£ :~safety last Saturday, and Mr. Charles
- Yarbrough of the Evening Star wrote

    

o ~ which sheds further light on the situa-
~ tion. I ask unanimous consent for in-
clusion of these news stories in the

- Appendix of the RECORD. s

R T

~ were ordered to be printed in-‘the
h e RECORD.

B (See exhibit C.)

fi‘:l ¥ EXHIBIT A

= WTOP COMMENT
=8 (By Scott Sutton, May 21, 1958)
The midair collision over Brunswick, Md.,,
- this week dramatizes the need for some sort
of unified control of America’s air space if
such tragedies are to be averted in the
Tuture. :
The collision of the military jet with the

"y
i
)

TR T A

:

T
e
‘

-y
1
.
‘v“

p

o

s
P

T‘ Capital Viscount in which 12 persons lost-
B -their lives is only 1 start tragedy of several
B that have plagued the air highways over
B the United States, mainly because air safety
b regulations have not been revised to meet
f the growing saturation of space by more
B and faster planes.

‘There was the midair crash of a military
Jet and a United Air Lines plane over Nevada
.on April 21 of this year in which 49 persons
were killed; June 30, 1956, the terrifying
W total of 128 persons were killed when a TWA

- and United passenger plane collided; and on
November 1, 1949, the last local accident
2 prior to the Brunswick disaster, a Bolivian
- jet pilot crashed an American P-38 into
‘ an Eastern Airlines plane over Washington
National Airport, killing 55 persons. And

these real disasters are further heightened

7 ~ by the fact that almost 3 near misses a
R - day occurred in 1957, for a total of 971 near-
e misses last year, according to figures re-
AT - leased by the Civil Aeronautics Board.

Essentially, the problem is the result of

2 separate air control systems—1 for military

craft, another for civilian planes—and when

\  they overlap, trouble occurs, as evidenced

by the statistics. It is apparent that some-
thing must be done to revise the system,
and the increasing frequency of midair
crashes underscores the urgency for action.

Any further delay most likely will permit

more such tragedies. :

Alr traffic systems as presently set up in-
volve two types of air control: Visual flight
- rules and instrument flight rules. Visual
flight assumes that the pilots can see each
other; Instrumental flight assumes that
weather conditions preclude pilots seeing
each other and places the planes under
ground surveillance assigned to a specific
altitude, time of flight and other regula-
tions. However, the trouble is that not all
planes fly both systems at the same time
in the same area, so that quite frequently
they overlap, as was the case in the Bruns-
wick, Md. crash.
Adequate control of flight traffic therefore
depends vitally upon some type of central
agency through which all flight patterns

A8

e

an article in the Sunday Star yesterday

~  ‘There being no objection, the articles.

 

g,ooord.inatedr e
!slatlon for mtroduction in the Senate this

g -week'that. is one step toward meeting this

problem. The Oklahoma Democrat would
create a Federal Aviatlon Agency which would
have independent status, directly responsible
to the President and Congress, and headed
by a single civilian administrator with pre-
vious aviation experience. The Administra-
~ tor would be given the necessary authority
to regulate the use of all air space over the
United States by civil and military aircraft
and to establish and operate a unified sys-
‘tem of air traffic control.

Under the Monroney measure, the civilian
Administrator would be advised about the
special problems of military aviation by a
military advisor appointed by the Sﬂcretary
of Defense. The Monroney measure further
provides for the.transfer of the Civil Aero-
‘nautics Authority to the new Agency; and

‘'would also transfer the present responsibility
~ of the Civil Aeronautics Board for making

and enforcing safety rules to the new group.

The Board would retain the power to review

appeals and its responsibility Tor economic
regulation of civil aviation and for accident
investigation. The = Board’'s investigatory
powers would be enlarged by allowing the
President to appoint members to special in-
quiry groups to investigate major air ac=-
cidents.

These provisions of the Monroney measure
do not of course provide the complete an-
swer to the problem, nor would they guar-
antee no air accidents; there is much more
to be done in other areas, such as an im-
proved radar and computer system in a na-
tionwide traffic safety system. But the Mon-
roney measure is a right step toward solv-
ing the central error in our present dual
system of air traffic control. First, a strong
central authority must control all air high-
ways, and the Monroney measure or some=
thing very similar should be passed by Con-
gress without delay. :

ExHiBrT B

TEXT OF REMARKS BY JEROME LEDERER, DIREC~
TOR OF FLIGHT SAFETY FOUNDATION, INC.,
. AND CORNELL-GUGGENHEIM AVIATION SAFETY
CENTER, UPON RECEIVING MONSANTO AVIA-
TION SAFETY AWARD FOR 1957 FrOM THE
AvIATION WRITERS' ASSOCIATION AT HOUSTON,
TEX., May 30, 1958
In a few weeks the United States will cele=-
brate the 20th anniversary of the establish-
ment of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938,
-Under this act, the aviation industry has suc-

--cessfully met two challenges: Public accept-
ance- of aviation, on which its economic.

future depends, and safety.
In 1938, only a little over a million pas=-
sengers rode the airlines. This year over 49

million passengers are expected. In 1938; the-

fatalities per 100 million passenger-miles was
4.5. Last year it was 0.2. The number of
aircraft in general use in 1938 was close to
11,000 of which 183 were involved in fatal
accidents. Last year the number was over

67,000 of which about 360 were involved in

fatal accidents.

As highways become more congested, as

more aids to navigation are installed and
more landing areas built, an ever-growing
number of people will seek the air in prefer-
ence to the hazards of the road. But the
Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938 was designed
for a different breed of aircraft than we are
now on the threshold of using. The cruising
speed of the air transports of 1938 was less
than many of the privately owned aircraft
of today.

The new transports will fily 8 times as fast,
8 times as high, descend 10 times as rapidly,
welgh 12 times as much, and carry up to
10 times as many passengers as those of 1938.
They will be equipped with an entirely differ-

MrxE MONRONEY has prepared leg‘t v
~ Senator “as all other aircraft.

. Washington.

Added to this new development is
growing use of helicopters and, in a few
years, of steep takeoff and landing aircraft.

These should enable the airlines to penetrate

the short haul market as successfully as they

have taken over the long haul passenger

market.

The new dynamism in aviation will have
to be matched by an equal dynamism in
Aviation is so closely tied to
regulation that it cannot accelerate with
declsions -that have to be jointly made by

the CAA and CAB. A single independent

agency should be able to act faster, carry
more weight in the halls of Congress and
with the Budget Bureau than the existing
two agencies—one of which operates under
another governmental department which has
many other interests.
independent, is beset by a combination of
technical and economic problems that (with
the best of intentions) tends toward a
lack of concentration on objectives that re-

quire continuous attention and proper de-

cisions based on factual evidence accumu-
lated with the utmost dispatch.

In short, the Civil Aeronautics Act as
amended is no longer geared to aviation's
jet. age. A new federal agency is required.
The aviatign industry has long recognized
the need to modernize its air traffic con-
trol system. Until 1956, the industry failed
to sell the Budget Bureau and Congress on
the importance of technical corrective action

by its placing confidence in the ability of

some 75 committees to solve the problem,
each working in its own interest. Commit-
tee operation seldom provides the faciilty
needed to attack a problem such as air
traffic control.

The air trafic control situation has been
and will remain for some time to come the
most critical problem facing aviation. For-
tunately, the solution now rests in the able
hands of Gen. E. R. Quesada and his Air-

. ways Modernization Board.

The most reassuring outcome of the crisis
created by the two recent collisions is the
added emphasis of the need for a single Fed-
eral aviation agency to replace the CAA and
CAB coupled with the fortitude displayed by
governmental agencies in not making pre-
cipitous decisions merely to satisfy pressure
(behind decisions thoughtlessly arrived at
often lurk much greater dangers). The co-
operative attitude of the military forces and
the eagerness with which Congress is work-
ing with the aviation industry to arrive at a
safe solution based on judgment instead of

snap decisions is the kind of mature action :

which is required.

However, the industry should learn a les-
son from this experience. Why was it un-
able to combat complacency in the highest
reaches of government in regard to the air
traflic-control situation prior to 1956? Who,
in the industry refused to recognize the im=-
portance of the problem? Was there. any
pussyfooting? What can be done to prevent
such a situation from arising again? These
questions should be answered not to fix
blame but to prevent similar delays in the
future in other areas. The same kind of
lethargy is apparent now in other fields of
aviation safety such as the needs of the
Weather Bureau, the need for attention to
human factors, and crash-injury research.

There is a direct connection between air
traffic control and noise because the aircraft
must follow patterns that will disturb the
public least. If the public will give the new
jets a chance, the noise problem will be
worked out to everyone’s satisfaction. The

‘Initial trials may produce some annoyances

in spite of the tremendous effort that the
Induystry has been making to reduce noise to-
acceptable level,

the

‘The other, though

  
 
 
 
     

-A"’_ Y a

Gt

A0 ensnt et v

  
     

.|
& s P A

Y
\
.
5
1
)
*
.\
.