Minutes of the Eighth ﬂeeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

Jenuary 17, 1951

grsggs 2xgsent: H. E. Boyd. 0. b. Draper 3. Laning C. Lin
2 Pc M. Morse and E. ﬁeissher ’ ’

The Committee met with Dr. Draper and his group to discuss
possible relationships, particularly concerning the differential
analyzer. First, we asked the opinion of this group concerning
possible courses in machine techniques. Draper indicated that
there might be between 15 and 30 men available each year for
training and for courses in this field. He indicated that a
basic course with prerequisite M351 and M352 would be needed,
and that, in addition, special courses on various types of
machines would be useful. This discussion will be of uelp to
the Committee in its further study of the problem.

The Committee went on to discuss the problem of the dif-
ferential analyzer. Dr. Draper's group took over the analyzer

' the first of July. For the first two months the machine was

down Doing overhauled. During October end November it worked
almost full time on problems for Draper's project. At present
there is available a certain amount of time for outside work,
and the project would welcome suggestions from the Committee
as to the type of work it could end should take on. It was
pointed out that for the machine to be in operating condition
requires a staff of eme Byersons -- one technician, one
machinist and three programming staff —- and that these people,
with their salaries and with the necessary overhead charges,
cost about $30,000 a year. However, for those times when the
machine is not in full use some of the staff can be taken over
to work on other parts of Draper's project so that in a con-
tinuing program the cost per year would be somewhat less than
the $30,000. The indications were that Draper's project could
continue to use about forty percent of the differential ene-
lyzer's time almost indefinitely and that about fifty percent
of the analyzer's time might be available for other work“

In answer to a query, Draper stated that he felt the
project would probably prefer to continue to control the difc
ferential analyzer for at least one more year, and that, in the