Extension of NSP G2940 Page 4

 ENCLOSURE B

Excerpts from Original Proposal for Funds
(modified to bring 1t up to date)

Name and Address of Institution:
M‘m————-‘-.w » ,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass,

Title of Proposed Research:
S=vo= Yt *I0POSed hesearch:
Research on Digital Computer Operation and Utilization

Investigation into the patterns of operation of electronic
digltal computers and the methods wheredby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; inecluding studies of
numerical analysis and machine programming methods, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such specifiec applications of
machine techniques to problems in selence, engineering, and |
administration as will clarify the basie research and suggest new
points of view.

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.

Time Periocd: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to defermine whether furthep support is advisable.

Proposed Research - Background Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related teo the use ef electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its 704 machines,
malntained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
Laborato®y, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
students for non-claszified and non-routine research., MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Machine Computation Committee.

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
& week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated their interest in parti-
elpating and have appointed faculty members to be their Insti-
tutlonal Representative. These representatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of their
institution. IBM is providing some funds for stipends for
graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of this research.

e e e ——————. et i ee—