oc-2 : Page 1 of 3

M.I.T. Computation Center

Massachusetts Institute of Tochnology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

MEMORANDUM

Tos P. V. Cusick ‘Date: November 27, 1956

 

Fron: F. M. Verzuh

Subject: Bursar's Accounts To Be Used in the M.I.T. Computation Center

 

In accordance with cur discussions concerning the list of Bursar's
Accounts which are to be used in connection with the M.I.T. Computation Center,
I have prepared the attached list of accounts. This list has been discussed
with Professors Morse and Floe, and Messrs. P. V. Cusick, J. A. Little,
F. L. Foster, T. W. Eowilcik, and PF. M. Verzuh, and has met with their approval.

in regard to the matter of the National Science Foundation Account,
Dr. Foster insists that the NSF Appropriation remain as a DSR project -= X
DSR 7573 has been get up for this account. The NSF project will therefore
remain as a DSR project where charges to the account will be made from the
. M.I.T. Computation Center OPERATING Account (2756).

The Computation Center has been set up as an interdepartmental
laboratory with set of accounts analogous to that of an academic department, and
these accounts will be budgeted in what is commonly known es the gray folder
budget procedure. The following accounting office numbers have been assigned:

A STAFY SALARIES #1545
For salaries of certain members of computation stafi,

B ACCESSORY TO TEACHING #1550.26
Secretarial assistance to above staff members.

Cc STAFE SALARIES | #1555 ,32

For DSR credits veceived for any man in the first account who is
charged to & DER contract,

 

D ACCESSORY TO TEACHING #1566G.26

Secretarial salaries charged to DSR contracts.

B BEZPEHSES #1783

Miscellaneous expenses such as, special lecturers honoraria, etc.

not covered by any IBM agreement or contract which should be
charged to MIT General Funds rather than the Computation Center
Operating Account. :

The sbove accounts are charged to the Institute General Funds.


CC-3 M.X.T. Computation Center Pape 2 of

LIST OF CQPUTATION CENTER FUND ACCOUNTS

The following accounts are chargeable to various specisl grants and
other sources of operating income:

1 Computation Center OPERATING Account $2756
——————— S————  A——————_ A ———— Tr —

Income received in this account will be derived from a
programming service charge levied sgainst all useys of the
Computation Center facilities. These monies will be used to
cover operating costs =- salaries of schedulers, key punch
operators, machine operators, programmers, analysts, and
other salaries and expenses occasioned by the use of the
Center beyond specific activities of the IBM contract.

a PARTICIPATING Colleges Operating Account - IBM #2757

IB¥ has agread to pay $10,000 to cover the cost of expenses
incurred in scheduling, administrating, and servicing the
New England colleges operations as described in Paragraph 186
in the operating agreement.

3 MIT Machine Operator Account -~ IBM H2T5TA

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators as described in
Paragraph 17 oi the operating agreement.

AY
=
=i
o

Colleges Machine Operator Account - IBM #27578

The I.B.M. Coxrpomtion has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators for the second
shift as soon as the 704 machine usage in the second shift
is adequate -- as deseribed in Paragraph 18 of the cperating
agreement.

hn

MIT Research Assigtanti-Associate Account - IBM $2757C

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay $30,000 per year to
defray the salary expense of research assistants and associates
assigned to the Center in accordance with Paragrsph 19 of the

operating agreement,

 

o ROCKEFELLE R FOUNDATION FUND $2759
The Rockefeller Foundation has a ed 32 8,000 for a
three-year program in connection with the M. .T. Computation Center.
7 National Science Foundation Pund FODSR 7573
The National Science Foundation has appropriated a $30,000
grant for support of the Computation Center activities.


o

t D ~~ yp

de pu wy - ~ A
MM ¥ T. Computation Centex Page 3 of

Computation Center Machine Maintenance and
Management Account - IEM #2850
for the cost of

e Ine

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed CO pay
electric power for the machines and air conditioning,
the maintenance and repair contracts on the air conditioning
equipment, and for an appropriate portion of the janitorial
and maintenance service of the building as defined in
Paragraphs 12-15 of the operating agreement.

for

MIT Project Accounts

Various MIT projects (both DSR and departmental) will make
use of the facilities in the Computation Center. These
projects will be assessed a programming service charge to
cover the cost of services rendered by the Center. Oi course
the individual account number involved in each ca

depending on the project involved.

Q
se will vary

nx Yr sorrel
BM. Verzuh

?
1/27/56

i


ol-2 Re Page 1 of 3

M.XI.T. Computation Center

Magssachugetis Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

MEMORANDUM
To: P. V. Cusick ‘Date: November 27, 1956
From: F. li. Verzuh

Subject: Bursar's Accounis To Be Used in the M.I.T. Computation Center

 

in accordance with our discussions concerning the List of Bursar’s
Accounts which are to be used in connection with the M.I.T. Computation Center,
i have prepared the attached list of accounts. This list has been discussed
with Professors Morse and Flog, and lieasrs. P. V. Cusick, J. A. Little,
F. L. Foster, T. W. Eowilcik, and F. M. Verzuh, and has met with their approval.

In regard to the matter of the Natiomal Science Foundation Account,
Dr. Foster insists that the NSF Appropriation remain as 2 DSR project -- ¥
DSR 7573 has been set up for this sccount. The NSF project will thersiore
remain as a DSR project where charges to the account will be made fyom the
M.I.T. Computation Center (PERATING Account (2756).

The Computation Center has been set up 28 an interdepartmental

laboratory with set of accounts analogous to that of an academic department, sud

these accounts will be budgeted in what is commonly known as the gray folder
budget procedure. The following accounting office numbers have been assigned:

#1545
For salaries of certain members of computation staii,

A STAFE SALARIES

£d

ACCESSORY TO TEACHING #1550.26

Secretarial pssistance to sbove staff members.

C STAFY SALARIES #1055 .32

For DSR credits received for any man in the first account who is
charged to a DSE contract.
0 ACCESSORY TO TEACHING # 1556.26

Secretarial salaries charged to DSR contracts.

B EAPENSES FLI83

ellancous expenses such as, special lecturers honoraria, etc.
not covered by any IBM agreement or contract which should be
arged to MIT General Funds rather than the Computation Center
rating Account. :

The above accounts are charged t9 the Institute Jeneval TFunds..


£o-2 B.X.T. Computation Center Page 2 of 3

LIST OF CQUPUTATION CENTER FUND ACCOUNTS

The following accounts are chargeable toc various special grants and
ether sources of operating income:

x Computation Center OPERATING Account - R2T56

Income received in this account will be derived from a
programming service charge levied ggainst all users of the
Computation Center fecilities. These monies will be used to
cover operating costs -- salaries of schedulers, key punch -
operators, machine operators, programmers, analysts, and
other selaries and expenses occasioned by the use of the
Center beyond gpecific activities of the IBM contract.

2 PARTICIPATING Colleges Operating Account - IRM #2757

IBM hae agreed to pay $10,000 to cover the cost of expenses
incurred in scheduling, administrating, and servicing the
New England colleges operations as described in Paragraph 16
in the operating agreement.

3 MIT Machine Operator Account - IBM F2787A

- The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators as described in
Paragraph 17 of the operating agreement.

[1-8
=
5

Colleges Machine Operator Account — IBM #27578

The I.B.M. Corpomtion has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator andl two machine operators for the second
shift as soon as the 704 machine usage in the second shift
is adequate --= ap described in Paragraph 18 of the operating
agreement.

5 KIT Research Assistant-Associate Account - ITEM #2TD7C

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay $30,000 per year to
defray the salary expense of research assistants and associates
assigned to the Center in accordance with Paragreph 19 of the
operating agreement.

8 ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION FUND | #2759

The Rockefeller Foundation has gppropriatsd $08,000 for a
three~yeayr program in conngetion with the M.I.T. Computation Center

7 National Science Foundation Fund #OSR 7873

The National Science Foundation has appropriated a $30,000
grant for support of the Computation Center gotivitics.


M § T. Computation Canter Page 3 of 3

3 Computation Center kachine Maintenance and
Management Account - IBM #2850

Tha I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay Zor the cost of
electric power for the mechines snd 2ir conditioning, for
the maintengnce and repalr contracts on the alr conditioning
equipment, and for an appropriate portion of the janitorial
and maintenance gervice of the building as defined in
Paragraphs 12-15 of the operating agreement.

8 MIT Project Accounts

Various MIT projects (both DSR and departmental) will make
use of the facilities in the Computation Center. These
projects will be assessed a programming service charge to
cover the cost of services rendered by the Center. Of course,
the individual gccount number involved in esch case will vary
depending on the project involved.

FP, M, Verzuh
11/27/56


