—_—_———-——————77

M. Tumin, Department of Economics and Sociology, Prince-
ton University; “New Forms of Social Affiliations,” by Clark
Kerr, Chancellor, University of California, Berkeley; and
“General Hypotheses on Labor Commitment,” by Arnold
S. Feldman, Department of Sociology, University of Dela-
ware, and Mr. Moore.

HISTORICAL STATISTICS
(Advisory to the Bureau of the Census)

G. Heberton Evans, Jr. (chairman), Otis Dudley Duncan,
Solomon Fabricant, Maurice I. Gershenson, Richard M.
Scammon, Willard L. Thorp, Harold F. Williamson; Sec-
retary, Herman P. Miller.

Excellent progress has been made on the assembly of ma-
terials for a new and expanded edition of the basic source
book, Historical Statistics of the United States, which is
being prepared for publication by the Bureau of the Census.
Table outlines for each of the 43 sections of the forthcoming
volume have been reviewed by the advisory committee. Each
of these table outlines was prepared by an expert in the
field, and in most cases each was reviewed by a specialist
who was retained by the advisory committee as a review
consultant. Over 75 outstanding scholars have been en-
gaged as working or review consultants. On the basis of the
materials so far submitted, it is estimated that the size of
the volume will be about 600 pages (including 200 pages of
text), twice the size of the first edition. Publication of the
volume is planned for early 1959.

All the subjects covered in the first edition will be in-
cluded and expanded in the new edition. The following are
some of the important subjects that have been added: con-
sumer expenditure patterns, social security, education,
crime, recreation, religion, climate, domestic trade and
services, corporate assets and liabilities, business population,
insurance, and armed forces. The volume will also contain
a special chapter on colonial statistics.

Arrangements have been made by the advisory committee
for the preparation of bibliographic and evaluative essays
on the statistics in several fields. The essays now in process
relate to international migration, internal migration, con-
sumer expenditure patterns, recreation, religion, minerals,
domestic trade and services, patents, and colonial statistics.

G. H. E.

LINGUISTICS AND PSYCHOLOGY

James J. Jenkins (chairman), John B. Carroll, Joseph H.
Greenberg, Alvin M. Liberman, Floyd G. Lounsbury,
Charles E. Osgood, Thomas A. Sebeok, Rulon S. Wells;
staff, Joseph B. Casagrande.

The committee has completed plans for a seminar con-
cerned with research on problems of aphasic speech, to be
held in the summer of 1958 at the Boston Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital, a principal center for the study and
treatment of aphasia. Support for the seminar has been

granted to the Council by the National Institute of Mental
Health. Under the chairmanship of Charles E. Osgood, the
seminar will bring together for six weeks an 1nterdisci-
plinary group of specialists—psychologists, neurologists,
and linguists—in an effort to integrate their various ap-
proaches to the study of aphasia and to develop promising
lines of new research. It is hoped that the work of the
seminar will contribute to understanding of normal lan-
guage behavior as well as to knowledge of aphasic disorders
and of their differential diagnosis and treatment.

In addition to Messrs. Osgood and Jenkins, senior partici-
pants in the seminar will include Norman J. Geschwind,
Research Associate, Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology; Harold Goodglass, Director of Re-
search, Clinical Psychology Section, and Fred A. Quadfasel,
Chief, Neurology Section, Boston Veterans Administration
Hospital; Wallace E. Lambert, Assistant Professor of Psy-
chology, McGill University; David L. Olmsted, Assistant
Professor of Anthropology, University of California,
Davis; Hildred Schuell, Director, Aphasia Division, Min-
neapolis Veterans Administration Hospital; Hans-Lukas
Teuber, Associate Professor (Experimental Psychology),
Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, New York Uni-
versity College of Medicine; Uriel Weinrich, Associate Pro-
fessor of Linguistics, Columbia University. Jean Berko,
Ph.D. candidate in psychology and linguistics, Harvard
University, and James McCarthy, Ph.D. candidate in psy-
chology, University of Illinois, will participate in the semi-
nar as advanced graduate student members. Several other
persons actively engaged in research on aphasia and closely
related problems will be invited to visit the seminar as
consultants for short periods.

Plans have also been made by the committee to hold
the fifth in its series of work conferences on various issues
in the broad field of psycholinguistics. On April 17-19 a
group of psychologists, linguists, and literary critics will
meet at Indiana University in a conference on research on
“individual style,” organized by Thomas A. Sebeok. The
papers to be discussed at the conference will be circulated
in advance. They are being prepared by Messrs. Sebeok,
Carroll, Jenkins, Osgood, and Wells of the committee and
by the following other participants: Monroe Beardsley of
Swarthmore College; Roger Brown and Albert Gilman
of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Seymour B. Chat-
man of the University of Pennsylvania; Richard M. Dorson,
Sol Saporta, Edward Stankiewicz, C. F. Voegelin, and V. J.
Zeps of Indiana University (the latter with Mr. Sebeok);
Fred H. Higginson of Kansas State College; John Hollander
of Connecticut College; Benjamin Hrushovski of Hebrew
University; Dell Hymes of Harvard University; John
Lotz of Columbia University; I. A. Richards of Har-
vard University; and W. K. Wimsatt of Yale University. In
a final session Roman Jakobson and George A. Miller of
Harvard University and René Wellek of Yale University
will summarize the results of the conference from the
points of view of linguistics, psychology, and literary
criticism, respectively.