COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
| Minutes of the Third Meeti
Academic Year 52-753

Persons Present: C. W. Adams, S. H. Caldwell, H. Feshbach,
J. R. Forrester, J. A. Hrones, C. C. Lin,
P. M. Morse, E. Reissner, and W. W. Seifert.

 

The subject of the discussion at this meeting was the
organization of courses in the machine computation field. Forrester
indicated that there were several types of course. a this field,
one set primarily of interest to the builders of machines. Such
courses have arisen naturally at the Institute, chiefly in the \
Electrical Engineering Department, and there seems to be no problem
concerning thelr presentation or planning. On the other hand, there
‘is a growing need for courses for persons who wish to use machines.
Here a certain small amount of material on what is inside the "black
boxes" is needed, but the primary emphagis should be on the operating
characteristics and on the use of the machine. | |

& Morse pointed cut that the Mathematics Department now had
a course in the mathematics fundamental to machine calculation. There
was some discussion as to the advisability of increasing the materiel
on numerical computation in M351 and on perhaps including a small

amount of material in M22. io definite agreement was reached on these
matters, however.

 

After some discussion there seemed to be a& general agreement
on the need for a course zt the senior level which would involve a
survey of machines and their properties, somewhat along the lines
given on pages 1 and 2 of the appended memorandum from Adams. It was
agreed that the number of Electrical Engineering pre-requisites for
this course should be kept ot a minimum in order to attract students
from as wide a variety of fields as possible. The ¢xact details of
i the material included could not ax present be agreetl upon, but the
| genaral scope of the material as given in Adams' outline wag felt to

be correct. Hrones and Reissner and Feshbach indicated agreement

that some such course would be a useful addition.

There was not time for 3 general discussion of the more
advanced professional courses for professional users of the machines
or builders of machines. Though a certain amount of discussion was


De

directed toward this general subject. There seemed to be general
agreement, for example, that a one-term course on punch card eguip-

ment of the sort proposed by Verzuh was probably desirable, though
it was not certain how much demand there was for such a gourse gf

present. The feeling was that such a course would be ugeful to

preta end the future of the course would then depend on ics BOpU-
ar J ‘

The next meeting of the Committee will be at 3 p.n.,

Wednesday, December 3. Morse said he hoped that Professor Browm
would be pregent then so that the subject of courses could be con-

tinued.
Phill As

Ee

   

11-5.52 (Mesting)


