THE SUPPORT OF MACHINE PROGRAMMING STAFF
FOR THE UTILIZATION OF
ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS IN SOCIAL SCIENCE

‘The Facility and Ite I entialities

: The high-speed computing facility, to be installed by
IBM at the new Computation Center at MIT will be the largest and
most flexible facility in this country tec be devoted exclusively
to unclassified research and education. IBM will contribute more
than a fifth of a million a year in its support for msintenance
and operation. What is needed, in addition, to make this an out-
standing center for the investigation of digital computer
potentialities in 211 branches of gclentific research, 1s about
3100, 000 a year for the support of a research staff, which can
work with scientists in various flelds to develecp new and more
effective techniques of machine utilization.

Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in New
England to participate in the use of the machines, and IBM has set
up funds for Assistantships ©© enable graduate students, at MIT
and at the participating colleges, to spend time at the Center
learning to use the equipment. This Center and these arrangements
represent potentialities for new developments in social and
physical science of great and unexplored importance.

There will be no charge for machine time made to students
or faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the
routine aspects of operation will be taken care of by IBM, so that
those who know how to use such equipment can use it, without cost,
up to the fourteen hours a day during which the machine wlll be
available at first. A number of problems in economics are golng
to be put on the machine by Professor Solow of MIT and by Professor
Orcutt of Harvard and, as other research workers in the social
sciences learn how to use the sguipment, other problems willl be
brought to the Center.

The Importance of Team Research

But an instrumentality, by itself, cannot produce new
research. To make the lmportant advances which are possible with
a computer of the speed and flexibility of this, one needs a team
of research pecple, some of whom know the machine and some of whom
know the research field. To get grciting new peossibllities beyond
the stage of a "gleam in the eye” we need, in addition to the
machine, a staff of experts in ma ohn use, ready to team up with
those scientists who believe the machine can help them but are not
sure how, so that, between them, they can tranzlate the "gleam in
the eye” into new and important results.


In the long run, the various social scientists in New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them. But 1t takes time to
learn to program a machine of this size, and research workers lin
any field are reluctant to take much time off to learn new tech-
niques. In addition, to get the most out of a computer one should
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronle details of its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed in our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using. computers
in social sclence now, we will have to use a team: a man who Knows
the field plus a man an who knows the machine.

Need for 2 Research Staff in Machine Utilizatioc ion, an
Ingredient in the “Team

This last ingredient is the part which is left out of
the contribution which IEM has made to the Computation Satan To
put the Center at the forefront of research, we must have 2 full-
time staff of enthusiastic machine specialists, to Eo pach prospective
users how to make the machine do its tricks snd to Join with
research workers who come with a "gleam in their eye’ , forming
teams which can utilize to the fullest the computer's "capabllities
in research. This staff will be hard, but not impossible, to
recruit. We have the beginnings of one formed now, at present
slanted chlefly toward research in the physical sciences, and we
have obtained an NSF grant oF $35,000 a year for three years to
support it. We have The gre duate student bodies of the partici-
pating institutions to a from and we have Blponay begun to make

W
uti

aontact with those gtudents who are interestad in nine uvutiliza-
Are

oh
Me

Ke
tion. There about two dozen IBM research assistants appointed
for this year. We should be able to pick from the best of these a
few who would like to stay on for two or three years more, after
they have obtained thelr: advanced degrees. in engineering, ‘mathe-
matlcs or science, to be a part of our research staff, potential
members of research teams |
Budget for the S lL S¢ nees
CIIIRT WEARS = - iw
To make u} cai which coul ri | Ie 30¢ial science

problems as wcil as the paysical ence ones would need another
four or five good m 2gearch n pli hnicians to baek
them up, plus mall budget f avel and inc ntal supplies
and 2quipment, apprc ately $35,000 a yes ‘or thre® years. It
would take about three years to get rolling and the developments
should be reviewed ¢ he end of three years, i 2¢ where to EO
next. Such a si 2 | Di Lmp : A123 2g tT] egimming
stages of Th ) f e] ompute ’ en thie probe
lems are r | d wi neither rener in
the team § ner! ns 0 ea 1.2 TC when some of
the more ) 2 DE : ate £ he
researc : ! ) 8 ith a definite goal
“Bel 1k ro rid unnort for the

nT 1g S | SC 2) : wuld


>

be financed indirectly by contributions from each project which
uses it, if this were considered to be the most desirable way of
keeping it going. At present, however, Support by contributions
from established research projects can support only about a third
of the $100,000 needed, which would leave unsupported the most
fruitful research of all, the unknown results which are sure to
come when a machine expert of the Center staff works together with
the economist, vsychologist or sociologist on the faculty of one

of our participating colleges who comes to the Center with only a
"gleam in his eye”.

Possible Initial Directions for Investigation

As indicated, we cannot write down in any detall the
directions which this research effort will take, as the various
teams are formed and begin to interact. There are several general
areas which we feel should be investigated, which are certain to
produce results of immediate interest and which, in addition,
should provide hints as to still more important applications.

A. One of these is the deeper investigation of machine
logic itself. A computer of the complexity of the 704 is too big
to be able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines
are now programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, a few programs have
been devised to make the machine obey the rules of Boolean logic
and some thought has been spent on working out programs to make
the machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the
logic of a game. Different sciences and branches of learning
have their own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics
and genetics each have patterns of thought which do not exactly
duplicate those of physics. Fundamental research is needed to
work out programs, rules of thought for the machine, which corres-
pond more closely to these other patterns. With a machine of the
flexibility and storage capacity of the 704, such research is
worth while. It will have toc be tackled, at the beginning, by
teams of experts in the field of interest, together with mathe-
matical logicians who know machine operation.

 

B. Another general line of attack is ln the fleld of
the storage and rapid access to information, such as is needed in
the problema of language translation and historical research, for
example. Several schemes of coding of information, so that it can
be found auickly and easily, have been devised on paper, but the
"bugs" in such schemes will become apparent only whep masses of
information, of the order of several hundred thousand items, are
to be ordered and sorted out. The new installation at The Compu-
tation Center will have 8 storage capaclty of this size. Some of
the proposed schemes should be tried out, and others developed, by
members of the Center staff working with persons familiar with the
information and tis uses. ¥or example, a project in machine

translation has already been set up under the dlrectbn of Professor
Locke of the language Department. As it develops, it will need the
help of machine programming specialists and will need the use of a
machine to test 1ts ideas. The translation project is already
supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, but parallel work by the
Computation Center on technlques Tor rapid access to large-guantity


i

 

L,

data would help this work as well as others. Another promising

direction of investigation is in the application of machine tech-
niques to library inventorying, cataloging and record-keeping.

Although Special-purpose machines will probably be required in the

end, many ideas and procedures can be developed and checked out on

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, in part
because the least investigated up t111 now, is in the field of
social science experiments, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referee. Tactical situations in warfare are
already being studied by “gaming techniques” at Rend and in other
military operations research groups. Similar problems in various
Flelds of the social sciences can also. be studied by 8implifying
the situation down to some sort of "game", with more or less com-
Plicated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators, to
See what the consequences are of various Strategles. If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to some actual soclal situation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require a
great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that only
by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded up
sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide
an over-all grasp of the situation under study. Such "gaming
techniques" are closely related to the experiments of. Bavelas on
the behavior of task-oriented groups. The use of a properly pro-
grammed computer would provide such experiments with a powerful
and flexible means of changing, controlling, and analyzing these
experiments in social psychology. In this fieid we could work in
close collaboration with the Center for International Studies at
MIT and with the psychology departments in Several ofher colleges.

Suggested Guidance for the Research

The research activities of the Computation Center are
guided and coordinated by an Advisory Committee con8isting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges, each
chosen by the president of his college. This Committee provides
over-all policy guidance in all activities. But to gulde the work
in social science outlined above, we will need another, more ape-
clalized group. If financial Support for this activity is forth-
coming, about six top-flight social seientists rom the participating
institutions will be invited to join a special advisory committee,
to talk over possible lines of research with the Center staff, to
help find those social 3clentists with "gleams in their eyes" re-
garding machine utilization in thelr field, ¢o help arrange Che
formation of teams for the pursuit of the suggested research and
To advise on relative priorities, if and when there is more work
to be done than there is machine time available.


Equipment, Personnel and Budget
nn 2 Suc jet

The suggested budget for three years ig tentative and is
more dependent on Cur ability ‘to hire one or two more experts in
computer Programming than on the amount of Work to be done, IT we .
can find wore men of the right Sort, more work can he done. Duri
the calendar year 1957 we may not be able Co find more than one
Senior man, one or two post-doctoral fellows and a couple of tech
nical assistants. By the fall of 1957 we may be able to persuade
one or two faculty members of the Cooperating institutions to Spend
appreciable fractions of their time at the Center, working on some
of the problems mentioned earlier, A Suitable fraction of thelr
Salaries should he carrled by the research funds of the Center
and, if the work, is in the social Sclences, would be chargeable
to the proposed grant. Some of the experiments in “gaming” will
require special input or output equipment. Therefore it may turn
out that less than £35,000 will be spent the first year, more than
235,000 the Second. The important point, however, is that because
of the presence of the equipment of the Center, Supported by IBM,
the ma jority of the budget of this grant can be Spent on salaries
for people directly carrying out the research outlined in this
proposal. :

The staff ean begin to be assembled this Spring, but
expenditures would Probably not reach full rate until the summer
of 1957, Consequently, the grant could officially start March or
April 1957, or could start as late ag June, if some earlier
expenditures could be charged against the grant at that time.


