Memorendna M-79 Pegs 1 of 2
Ingtrumentation Laboratory

Magsacinzetits Inztitnie of Tackmolos’
Canbridge, Massackmzetis

Tos ¥F. M. Verzuk
IToR: HEogh B. Boyd

Date: March 30, 1951

Subject: INSTRUMENTATION LABORATCORY USE OF THE ROCEEFEILEER
DIFFEREENTIATL, ANALYZER

 

 

For momercus reasons, coneiderable corfasion has exzisted from time o timo
or various questions concerning our uec of the Differentisl Analyzer. As

I undersband 1%, the Iastrumentation Isboratory hme the use of the Analyzer
unéil Juns 30, 1951. I am reguesting Professor Morse's sommitise to give
ue an angwer in the pear fufure on ocur request to consider eztendin; our
uee of the machino for an addl$ionsl gix to Stwelve months.

The machine has done seme valuable work during the paszt fsw monihs om
Iingtromentation Laboratery prodleme. We ave anxicums to contimms this alitu-
gtion whlle making the auslyzer available for thesie problemg sud use by
faculty membors on praoblems of interess.

1 be.lmvo that the fellowing sugzeeted procsdures will be helpfnl iz attelin-
ing thls objeciive with o minimm of confusior om all gides:

i, Dr. d. Holcombe Ianing will be responsible for =11 echeduling of
problems on the machine. OIr. lening hag sgreed nct caly o
gchedvle the Instrumentation Isaberabtory work tat to conguls with
Profeasor Morgs and yoeu on othwer uses as long as safficiend wordh
wvhile worlz is avallable. Ve will eoxpect £0 uwee the mechine a%
least 75% of the tims, with the remmining 254 or lese belmg splis
botwaen worthy thesis projecta (for vhich there will be no eharge)
and vee by othor membders of the Inatitute doing defomse werk
{foz whish thore will he & charge congloting of the eainvies gwd
vegea of all persoznel assoclated with the snelyser &

during the
roriofd that this problem is occupying khe atteriien azd uese of

5 W3 <

i

the meehing end 8%2f?). I will zppreciese prior motifieation of
ell potential uses of the machine othior than thosis studondts or
cuf leboratery se that I can ingure errengswends for paymont which

on
4

o e A . - \a'o‘ 3 g
L congider sabisfactory.

D

st >ad Mo, Po : ale @ e nolgan: j 9
L have agked Mpr. Peul Cusick o reviow usze 16 angiyoer since
y =

L 3 S
July le$ on & financial basie. He will ervenge for the correctiocn
01" cortain billing errors which ccourred durins the peried July
shrough September a2nd for inveielnz Stevors Instiuse, Project
loteor and the AMD contraect for uss of the machine aivee septembor
S0%R