!

 

PROPOSAL FOR EXTENSION OF NSF GRANT No. NSFG2940

to June 30, 1958

Proposal

Although our IBM 704 is now delivered and is in storage at
MIT, delay in completion of the bullding to house it has delayed
commencenent of the project financed by NSP grant NSF G2940. As
a result, it is estimated that only about $8,000 will have been
spent by June 30, 1957. Staff members, which were to have been
transferred to this project, have been continued on the Whirlwind
project until the change-over, and most of them will not be trans-
ferred until summer. It 1s therefore proposed that the projeet be
continued until June 30, 1958, with an additional grant of only
$13,000, so that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to
June 1958, we can operate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecas¢. Estimated details of budget
are appended, together with excerpts from the original preposal.

Progress to Date

Although the NSF funds have not been used to any extent, work
on the first aspects of the propesed research has gone forward
as rapldly as is possible without the 704 being in running condi-

- tion. A complete utility and a post-mortem program have been

developed, and tested out on borrowed 704 time, a much more
flexible assembly program than at present available has been
begun, ready for active coding when our 704 is in operation.
Discussions have been begun with a view to investigating the
incorporation of a flexible output equipment utilizing the
photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Many programs
of importance in physics and engineering have been, or are being
translated from Whirlwind language to 704 language, such as the
work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. C. Slater
and the large-shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossi. The
meteorology group under Prof. Charney, recently moved here from
Princeton where their work was initiated by Von Neumann, is
bplanning o use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
require the advice and help of our staff to program their various
calculations. We will be assisting the Harvard Observatory staff
in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the IGY satellite "shoots". Dr. S. Ulam of Los Alamos, who has
been a Visiting Fellow to the Center this year, has been assisting
us develop "Monte Carlo" techniques. Prof. John MeCarthy of the
Dartmouth Mathematics Department (one of the New England colleges
participating in our program) will be here next year and will be
interested in developing machine legiec and in further investiga-
tions of the behavior of "automata" by means of simulation pro-
grams. The staflf of the MIT library is interested in exploring
the possibilities of storing and recovering information by
machline methods and a project in the MIT Language Department on
machine translation, supported by the Roeckefeller FPoundation,
expects €o use our equipment to test out their ideas. Cther
groups, at the 23 participating colleges, are planning further
work.