PROPOSAL

TO

NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION

A CONFERENCE FOR DIRECTORS OF UNIVERSITY COMPUTING LABORATORIES

American Mathematical Society
190 Hope Street
Providence 6, Rhode Island

January 1, 1960


Name and Address of Institution

The American Mathematical Society
190 Hope Street
Providence 6, Rhode Island

Proposed Project

A Conference for Directors of University Computing Laboratories

Desired Starting Date

January 1, 1960, or as soon thereafter as is practicable

Time Period for Which Support is Requested
One Year

Presentation of Plans for the Project

This is a proposal from the American Mathematical Society for a grant in
the amount of $18,912. 00 for the support of a Conference for Directors of University Com-
puting Laboratories, to be held as a symposium in conjunction with the 568th regular meet-
ing of the Society at Chicago, Illinois, on April 22-23, 1960. The Conference would follow
the meeting and it is expected that the Conference and the meeting will be scheduled so that
no sessions of the Conference will conflict with any of the sessions of the meeting.

The purpose of the Conference would be to investigate problems peculiar to
University Computing Centers and publish a report embodying the findings.

An informal committee consisting of:

E. L. Buell, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Walter Freiberger, Brown University (Secretary)
S. Gorn, University of Pennsylvania

T. A. Keenan, University of Rochester

W. B. Kehl, University of Pittsburgh

Philip Morse, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Chairman)
J. Perlis, Carnegie Institute of Technology
R. Rymer, Northwestern University

R. Shreve, Oklahoma State University

J. Viavant, University of Oklahoma

H. Wells, Georgia State College

W. Wymore, University of Arizona

PERPEP

have formulated tentative plans for the Conference, and have selected five topics for the
Agenda:

1. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of financing centers?
What fraction of time can be "sold" and what fraction should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real intellectual challenge,
for research in the use of machines? What are the opportunities for theses in these fields;
how are such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted on the basis of these
theses?


iD

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be offered? Should
courses on machine coding be given for credit or as short courses without credit or as
parts of other appropriate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual content,
intimately involving computing machines, are being given and in what departments ?

4. Computing service to university departments: Who in the college should be
given "free time? What priority system can be set up in case of overdemand? How does
one distinguish between free and paying users? What are appropriate forms for interde-
partmental supervisory committees to administer such a service program?

5. Government relations: How should work done under Government contracts be
charged? Would it be feasible to establish a uniform scale of charges for the various
machines and services throughout the country?

According to tentative plans, the Conference will be held during two and one
half days on April 23-25, 1960, to be allocated approximately as follows. A half-day
session on Saturday afternoon, April 23, will be devoted to invited addresses on the above
topics. This session should be of interest to many members of the Society not directly
concerned with the management of a university computing facility.

The remaining two days of the Conference would be work sessions for an
invited group of representatives of university computing laboratories. It is estimated
that there would be approximately 85 members of this group. Their object would be to
study the above five topics, answer a number of questions concerning them, and edit the
findings as Proceedings of the Conference. The plan is for the group to divide itself into
five subgroups, to discuss the above topics in simultaneous sessions on Sunday, April 24.
Each of these subgroups would elect two representatives to present the conclusions of the
day's deliberations to the full meeting of the Conference the next day. On that day these
conclusions would be further discussed and if necessary modified for final recommenda-
tions.

It is expected that the committee planning the Conference will consist of
Professors Philip M. Morse, M.I.T., Chairman; Walter Freiberger, Brown University,
Secretary; Alex Orden, University of Chicago; J. W. T. Youngs, Indiana University,
and perhaps one or two other members, to be selected by the chairman of the committee.

The Society would be responsible for making suitable arrangements for
adequate accommodations for the Conference and for seeing to it that local administrative
matters are properly handled. The Conference would be suitably announced and adver-
tised in the NOTICES of the American Mathematical Society. The Society will handle the
printing and distribution of the Proceedings of the Conference. It is planned to distribute
one free copy of the Proceedings to each of the approximately 160 Institutional Members
of the Society and to each of the participants in the Conference. Additional copies will be
distributed, at no charge, as directed by the planning committee.

Proposed Budget

We have estimated that there will be 60 grants for travel expense and per
diem. The average travel grant is estimated to be $150 and the average per diem $60 or
five days at $12 per day.


-3 -

The Proceedings are to be prepared by utilizing a stenographic reporting
service to record a complete transcription of all lectures and discussions. The transcrip-
tion. resolutions of the Conference, etc., are to be edited for the published Proceedings.
The expense of editing 1s estimated to be 35 man days at $2 per hour, or $560.

In view of these provisions, it is not planned to pay the invited speakers

4 "manuscript preparation fee'' as is customary in other symposia sponsored by the
Society.

Under the provisions of an NSF statement, dated December 21, 1959, we
are requesting an allowance for indirect expenses at the rate of 20% of total direct costs.

Thue, the following tentative budget is proposed:

IETBYR) + + o's 90 v isis wag een nsensismee sissies $ 9,000
Per DIGI «cue « vo iis sie vicsnisis sisnsiisneessiosiviascieiens 3, 600
Conference Reporting Service ........ccceeceenens 1,500
Editing BEPOTLS « « « sis c smn sisaeicsivanstaisswenssves 560
Typing Edited Report (100 pages). ....oocesnnoccens 225
Multilithing (300 copies). ....ccvecerocanenaconccn: 375
Organizing Committee Expenses including .........

cost of distribution of report ........ccuveeeeeen 500
Total Direct EXpenses .......coocesesnosscssssoses $15, 760
Indirect Expenses (at 20% of Direct). ....... coc... 3, 152
POTALL + « tlsiess sities <unseln ule sn iared wanton inisisis wisiaie sie $18,912

Respectfully submitted,

Arh nln

GLW:dJW rdon L. Walker

cc: NSF (15) Executive Director
Philip M. Morse

Walter Freiberger
Alex Orden

J. W. T.. Youngs

E. J. McShane

A. E. Meder, Jr.
J. W. Green

WwW. H. Hosmer (5)


