22

(2.501) in the program would set the r}lachine busﬂg
computing the exponential of 2.591, so it can be use
in the next stage of the computation.

UT I hadn’t intended to spend so chh time tall_c-
ing generalities. I think a few specific cases will
i ] : trying to make
exemplify some of the points I've been trying o
and will illustrate a few of the ways whereb.y.a hl%’li
speed digital computer can be used by physxcxsts.h ?
pick the examples in physics—thoug}u I \}rould have ha
a wider choice of examples in engineering or meteor-
ology or geophysics—out of the several. thqusar.ld tl:-
search computations carried out by Whirlwind in the
past few years. Also, my examples are chosen from
work done on Whirlwind I at MIT because I know
this work more intimately. Quite similar examples could
be drawn from the work of any of the other large ma-
ines now operating. LR
Chlfr\]n examplep of a gery simple problem, requiring little
machine ‘experience, was the solution of about 500 five-
by-five secular equations for J. C. Slater :f'md G. E.
Koster of our solid-state theory group. In th{s case the
program for solution had already bgen dev1sgd fqr a
previous problem and needed only minor modifications
to be used. The values of the matrix componer}ts were
all computed out by hand and fed .in successwgly Fo
the machine, the 2500 roots successively appearing in
the output. The whole computation of th'e roots took
the machine about four hours to accomplish. Although
this was a long time for the machine, because.of the
large input and output, it representgd a substantial sav-
ing of time for the computers, since no appreciable
time had been spent on programming. The accuracy and
reliability of the answers was better than would h'ave
been obtained by hand, without a great deal of‘tlme
spent on checking. Here the machine was used ‘lllfe. a
glorified desk computer, and little of its potentialities
for combined programs was realized. The volume qf
the output was fairly large, but the results were uti-
lized in further hand computations, so no great care
had to be taken to obtain good typography or format
for the output.

A more interesting and much more ambitious prob-
lem, done by E. H. Jacobsen, involved the calculation
of the density of vibrational energy levels for the crys-
tal lattice of copper, needed in order to compute the
temperature diffuse scattering of x-rays from the elastic
constants of the lattice. In this problem 30 000 three-
by-three secular equations were solved. If all the matrix
C(—)mpuncnts had been hand computed and then fed in,
and if all the 90 000 energy values had been fed out of
the machine. the inefficiencies of the input-output units
would have caused great delays. More important, such
a mass of numbers could not have been held at one
time in the internal storage, so the machine would have
had to stop frequently to unload answers and load up
new data. which would have stretched the job out to a
completely unacceptable length of time. In addition,
the hand analysis of 90 000 answers would have been a
tedious and discouraging job, to say the least.

 

e ——

To shorten the time, several things were done, ea}ch
of them adding complexity to the program but makgng
it easier for the machine. In the first place the machine
was asked to compute all 270 000 matrix components.
The machine could compute one of these components
much faster than a preca}culated value could be fed
into its memory from outside. In addltlon., the machine
didn’t have to remember a lot of them, it could com-
pute each value as it was needed; only the general di-
rections for computing the values had to be remem-
bered. In the second place, the computec.l energy values
were never withdrawn from the machine. What was
needed was, not the values of each of the 90 000 level.s,
but information on how many such level.s there were in
a sequence of adjoining energy bands: in other words,
the density of levels in various ranges of energy was
the answer sought.

To record the level density, severa} hundred storage
registers in the machine were set aside to serve as a
sequence of energy bands, covering the energy range of
interest. Each energy level, as it was computed, was
then read as a register address, npt as a number, and
thereby routed to the storage register for that energy
value. For example, if a computed level turned put to
be 253.7, storage register 253, which was counting a}ll
levels between 253 and 254, was increased by one unit,
whereas if the level were 177.2, one unit would .be
added to register 177. At the end of the com[:)utatlon
the tally count in each of these registers was just the
number of levels in the corresponding energy band; the
90 000 individual energy values had long since bc?en
forgotten and all that was taken out of the mach§ne
were these several hundred level density counts, whl_ch
took very little time to record. I am sure you realize
that the actual process was not as simple as I have de-
scribed it here, but the basic principle was similar. A
problem, at first sight too big for Whirlwind, was thus
squeezed on by clever programming.

I don’t know how long it would have taken to have
computed by hand 270 000 matrix components, from
them to have obtained 90 000 energy values by hanfi,
and then to have counted up all the levels occurring 1n
the various energy bands in a sequence covering the
appropriate energy range. It probably would have taken
several man-years. The times actually required force-
fully illustrate the magnitude of the speed-up, and also
the size of the programming bottleneck. It took Whirl-
wind only one hour and a half to do all the calculations,
literally millions of them. But it took six man-months
to work out the program, test it, and get it ready for
the hour and a half run. However, Jacobsen, who
worked the program out, started from scratch, without
any previous experience with big computers. If he had
started with as much experience as he now has, it prob-
ably would have taken him only three months to work
out the program, but I doubt whether he could have
done it in much less time. And I doubt whether a pro-
fessional programmer, if he had been handed a set of
written instructions, could have done it at all, no mat-
ter how voluminous the written instructions were. Such

PHYSICS TODAY

problems simply can’t be done on a mail-order basis,
so to speak.

Another example will show how programs are com-
bined and telescoped together as we learn how to use
the equipment. A number of years ago some of us com-
puted, by hand, a set of energy values for atomic wave
functions of simple analytic form, as functions of the
parameters of the form. These tables enabled one, by
use of the variational principle, to obtain reasonably ac-
curate, analytic wave functions for the lower states of
atoms in the first row of the periodic table. Partly for
training purposes, partly because the tables still seemed
to be useful, Arnold Tubis, of our group, recently re-
computed these tables, using Whirlwind. He programmed
the machine to compute kinetic energies, nuclear poten-
tial energies, interaction and exchange energies for s, ,
and d wave functions of the form of an exponential
times a combination of 7, for a large number of dif-
ferent values of the exponential scale factors. The pro-
gram also included instructions to the output unit so
the results came out of the automatic typewriter in
final table form, ready for offset photographic printing.

These tables will be published sometime this fall.
I hope they will be useful to those people who haven’t
access to a machine like Whirlwind, but I am already
sure we won’t use them at Tech. For the calculation of
such energy values is now an established subroutine,
taking only a few seconds of machine time. It is much
more efficient to ask the machine to recompute this
value when it is needed than it is to look up the value,
put it back in the machine and have it using up a stor-
age register, waiting until it is needed.

Last fall Tubis programmed the machine to take the
next step and carry out the variation to find the best
values of the parameters. The general program specifies
the nuclear charge and the electronic configuration de-
sired; the subroutines developed earlier tell the machine
how to compute a trial value of the energy for a given
choice of parameters. Then the general program tells
the machine to compute a sequence of energy values
for a sequence of points in parameter space, how to
direct this sequence so it approaches the minimal point,
and, finally, to stop the sequence when the energy
value has become stationary and to print out the corre-
sponding energy and parameter values.

Another ambitious job, done last year by J. D. C.
Little and F. J. Corbatd, was the computation of a 500-
page table of spheroidal wave functions. These wave
functions can be expressed as a series of spherical har-
monics, the successive coefficients in the series being
related by a three-term recursion formula. The equa-
tion for the separation constant thus involves a con-
tinued fraction, which can be arranged to be solved by
iteration. The program first had the machine perform
this iteration until successive results agreed to eight
decimal places; next, from the recursion formula, it
was told to compute the ratios between the successive
series coefficients; then, by applying a normalizing con-
dition, to compute the coefficients themselves; and
finally to arrange the results on the output tape in the

OCTOBER 1956

23

proper order and with the proper instructions so that
the automatic typewriter would title the page, give the
values of the eccentricity parameter, the separation con-
stants and the series coefficients in appropriately la-
belled columns, and would even print in dots so a
draughtsman could draw lines separating rows and col-
umns. This line ruling was the only hand work done on
any of the 500 pages. They went to the photo-offset
machine practically untouched by human hands.

This program also was done by persons with no
previous computer experience. It took ten man-months
for Little and Corbaté to get an error-free program—
there were about 2000 instructions in the final code. It
took Whirlwind ten hours to do all the calculations and
it took the automatic typewriter more than 200 hours
to type the 500 pages of tables. Here again I hope the
tables (they are published now 1) will be of use to those
not sitting next to a high-speed computer, but I don’t
believe they’ll be used at MIT. For this program,
stripped of the instructions for typing out the table, is
now a part of our subroutine library; it only takes
Whirlwind a fraction of a minute to compute a sphe-
roidal wave function, for any order or any ratio of
wave length to interfocal distance, when it is needed
in a more general calculation.

For example, spheroidal wave functions are needed
in the calculation of nuclear energy levels of spheroidal
nuclei. This last fall the energy levels of a spheroidal,
square-well potential were calculated on Whirlwind by
J. L. Utetsky for different eccentricities. These calcula-
tions use the previously developed program to compute
a sequence of wave functions, each coming closer to
satisfying the boundary conditions, until some prede-
termined criterion of closeness of fit is satisfied and the
corresponding energy is then recorded and a new se-
quence is started to close in on the next level. This
more general program was fairly easy to devise because
the most difficult part of it, that for the calculation of
the spheroidal functions, was already done.

I COULD give several hundred similar examples, each
with its lesson learned. But if I go on, I might be
suspected of doing what I didn’t want to do, of boast-
ing about the capabilities of digital computers. Perhaps
I have given enough examples to illustrate my earlier
generalities: that high-speed computing machines don’t
do your thinking for you, that you have to work with
them to get the most out of them, and that they aren’t
good for every kind of problem. Perhaps you have come
to the same conclusion we have, however, that in spite of
their shortcomings they are nice things to have around.
Nowadays it doesn’t seem you can get very far in
experimental physics without using big, expensive appa-
ratus. You can’t compete unless your machine costs a
million or so. Well, we theorists are now in the running
too; we needn’t apologize for our cheapness and sim-
plicity of operation any more. High-speed computers

are our million dollar gadgets.

1 Stratton, Morse, Chu, and Corbatd, Spheroidal Wave Functions,
John Wiley & Sons, N. Y. and Technology Press, MIT, 1956.