wv)

wl!

l

MEMORANDUM ON THE M.I.T. DIFFERENTIAL ANALYZER

by

Fo. Ms Verzuh

November 10, 1954


1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0

6.0

7.0
8.0

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Lege

IBTPOUUCTION vic vs ¢ oe iienisicy lettin: vile slr al oie ew wie alte eX
Historical Background of the Rockefeller Differential Anglyzer . . . . . 1
Insgrumentation Leboratory Utilization of the RDA. . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Survey of the Application of the Differsntial Analyzer . . . . . . . . . 4
Disposition of the Differential Analyzer . . : vi satis. a helen alia er vie 2 8
TABLE I: Distribution of the Rockefeller Differential Analyzer vv nil

5.1 Purdue University NegotiGtions . . «.« = « se oo « « 2 oo no oo 8
TABLE II: RDA Removal Expenses Incurred by Purdue University . . . 8

5.2 Other Institutional Negoti8tioms . . . . . ve + o 2 vv ov o 0 oo O
5.3 "B.3.T. ROBOBICH Proleftm.. . . « civic sts « a = iu lo oh viens vo ole iS
5.4 Expenses Incurred im the Removal of the RDA . . . . . +. « « « « + « 10
TABLE III: Total Cost of Removing the RDA. . . . . . . « « « « «» » 10
Disposition of the RDA Machine SROD. . . . + « & © ¢ « « o o 0 o oo os » « 11
TABLE IV: RDA Shop Equipment Returned to Instrumentation Leboratoryll

6.1 MNechine Shop Equipment Transferred to Elecirical Engineering. . . . 12
TABLE V: RDA Machine Shop Equipment Transferred toc Room 10-481 . . 12
Institute Space Reallocation. . . . . . . . . . wR we ee Te Tee a a he ete TLS
Conclusion. . . . . . . . .... gti hits % wn i nn SEE a 8

BIBTIOETAphY. + + on ve nm eis eed oe

"SJ. - »
A


1.0

Jemorendua on the M.I.T. Differential Analyzer
INTRODUCTION

This memorandum is prepared with two objectives im mind. First,

- a brief historical background of the Rockefeller Differential Analyzer

(RDA) is presented together with specific comments pertaining to the
development period and pertinent factors associated with its operation
during the past twelve years. Second, the recent dismantling and
disposition of the RDA is described in some detail. In the discussion

- of the above items, frequent reference will be made to several memoranda

which have been prepared on the machine during the past decade.

I think it is importamt that the Rockefeller Research Foundation
be properly informed of the disposition of the Differential Analyzer
since they were so helpful with financial contributions Gnlne its ~
formative years.

HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF THE ROCKEFELLER DIFFERENTIAL ANALYZER

‘The original design and development of the Differential Amalymer
was initiated early in 1936, and several of the basic features of the
machine were determined at that time. Specifically, the design of the
servomechanisn system which wegused to interconnect the components of
the machine was developed during that period. This is mentioned simply
to indicate that during recent years some of the maintenance problems
associated with the RDA were occasioned by the particular servomechanisas
vhich were employed. Thess were vintage 1936, end as such, were not
competitive with post-World War II servomechanism design.

The original Center of Analysis was formally organized by Professor 8. H.
Caldwell in July, 1839 with the aid of & grant of $30,000 from the Carnegie
Foundation. During its early, formative years, the Center existed largely
on grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, Electrical Engineering Department,
and other sources; and it was not until 1942 that the RDA was finally placed
into operation. Beginning at that time, the RDA provided a source of
financial revenue which assisted in the formulation of a self-supporting
regime.

During 1941, the activities of the Center (under the direction of
R. Taylor) were expanded to include a large battery of desk calculators
and associated personnel who were well advanced in the use of numerical
analysis techniques. At that time, the Center contained 3 principal types
of facilities:

1. The Differential Analyser facility consisting of 2 machines:
a) The original 6-Integrator Differential Analyser,

b) The new Rockefeller 18-Integrator Electromechanical
Differential Analyser.


3. The IBY Punched-Card Section,

3. The Hand Computing Group (which employed desk calculators
for computationsl purposes).

During the war years 1242-495, the ataff of the Center was increessed

to approximately 30 people. Because of the large volume of war-time
computational activity (2-shift operation, ete.), this self supporting
type of operation resulted in the creation of a financial reserve fund
of over $40,000.

Professor 8. H. Caldwell returned from his NDRC assignment in 19845
and again assumed his former position as active Director of the Center.
The post-war yeers 1546-47 had a devastating effect on the previousliy-
mentioned finsncial reserve. The volume of computational work was sharply
curtailed during this period, but the operating staff of the Center was
not meterially reduced. As & conseguence, the two-year period 1948~49
were very trying years from the financial standpoint; and during this
period, the IBM Group and the Hand Computing Group were separated from the
Center.

In March, 1848, F. M. Versuh was placed in charge of the punched-
card group. After a period of reorganizationy it appeared that the loss
of one of the principal clients of the IBM services, the A. D. Little
Company, would create a serious operating deficit in the punched-card
section. As a result, a decision was made to discontinue the punched-card
section, and 2 letter terminating the existing IBM machine rental contract
was sent to the IBM Corp. in May, 1949. Fortunately, Dr. Stratton learned
of the situation in time to prevent dissolution of the goup, and at his
direction, the IE punched-card facility was reactivated on July 1, 1849, and
the group began operation as 2 separate computing facility under D.I1.C.
sponsorship. Finally, on July 1, 1950, the Administration set up the IBM
group as an Administrative Office -- the Office of Statistical Services.

It also became apparent that the originel 6-Integrator Differential
Analyzer was no longer required at M.I.T., and consequently it was pre-
sented to Wayne University im July, 1949 where it is still in operation.
Barly in 1942 the Differential Amaliyzer Croup (the last remaining section
of the Center of Amslysis) was sbout to be dissolved because of financial
difficulties. Fortunately, in June, 1849, a contract was initiated with the
U. 8. Air Forces which provided the mecesssry financlal assistance needed
to continue its operation. In July, 1948, FP. M. Verzuk was also placed in
in charge of the RDA group and was faced with the problem of hiring a new
operating staff. (The former group of Messers. J. L. C. Lof, H. Morash,
G. Eunstedt, M. Coate, etc. had been released.)

A new operating staff consisting of Messrs. J. M. Ham, and H. E.
Grossimon were hired and trained, and the new RDA group consisting of
Professor Caldwell, Messrs. M. Forbes, L. BE. Frost, J. E. Goos, H. E.
Grossimon, J. ¥. Hem, F. M. Verzuh and Misses E. Collins, S. Conway, and
BE. Tamm experienced an effective year which resulted in the following major
additions to the RDA:


the adder capacity of the RDA by 85%.

2. The design and construction of two sutometic curve followers
was completed, and these were used as input units om the RDA. 2

: 3. The design and construction of the Vector Unit was completed.
This unit incressed the functional capabilities of the RDA.S

1. Three new four-gshaft units wore constiucted which increased

: Additional details of the work performed during this period under
Air Force Contract are given in the Summary Reports which were submitted
as pert of this work.%, | |

September 30, 1950. However, it became apparent prior to July 1, 1950 that
the operation of the Differential Anslyzer would again be in finencial dif-
ficulty. Consequently, the Inatitute decided to close down the Differential

The official termination date of the Air Force Contract was

Analyzer as of June 30, 1950. Again the operating staff was released, and
the E. E. Department permanently severed 211 responsibility for the Differential
Analyzer. The machine was about to be scrapped when Dr. Drape, Director of the
Instrumentation Laboratory expressed interest in its possible operation. When
| he learned that it only cost approximately $25,000 a year to operate the
facility, he indimted that the Instrumentation Leboratory would assume full
responsibility for all RDA operation as goon as the existing Alr Force Contract
was completed.

At this time, it was realized that the principal uncompleted work on
the AKC contract was confined to the operational staff and not to the RDA

Machine Shop. Consequently, the respoasibilities of the RDA Shop were trans-
ferred to the Instrufentation Laboratory on July 1, 1050. In this ALNNEYr ,
the Laboratory was able to utilize the services of the 3 Instrument Jdakers

| and all of the shop facilities for the production of gyro and other delicate
mechanisms for the Laboratory.

During the remaining three months of the AMC contract, namely July-
September, 1950, the operating staff of the RDA was engaged in the completion
of work requested by Wright Field, the preparation of final technical reports
required under this contract, and the completion of outstanding Center of
Analysis commitments requiring the use of the RDA. Hence, it was not until
October 1, 1950 that the Instrumentation Laboratory assumed the responsibility
of the operation of the entire RDA facility.

At this time, F. M. Verzuh agreed to supervise the operation of the RDA
for the Instrumentation Laboratory. Since the Electrical Engineering Depart-
ment staff assigned to this project had beaureassigned to other projects within
the E. E. Department, effective July 1, 1950, (Professor 8. H. Caldwell, J.

HM. Hem, and H. P. Grogsimon), it again became necessary to hire a2 new operating
staff. Two new men (Messrs. I. Pfeffer and R. Fredrickson) were hired and
trained in the techniques of the RDA operation, and in several months they
were able to effectively utiiize the RDA for the solution of Instrumentation
Laboratory problems.

 

1. Pleage refer to the Bibliography for the List of References.


3.0 INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY UTILIZATION OF THE RDA

The Instrumentation Laboratory expressed a desire to assume the res-
ponsibility for RDA operation in order that it might carry on design and
“calibration studies for new computing sights and ammunition which were under
current investigation in the Laboratory. Furthermore, certain Instrumentation
Laboratory contractual commitments were concerned with the development of im-
proved computing sights, and the solution of associated kinematic equations
required the use of the RDA.

The Laboratory felt that the RDA was unique in its demonstrated capability
for handling problems of that type. It mist be remembered that at that time
(1950) the status of present-day large-scale computers was not where it is at
the present time, and as a result, these calibration studies could be carried
out more SPtentivaly on the analog machine.

As it turned out, this was a most fortunate decision on the part of the
Instrumentation Laboratory since it resulted in the désign of new lead computing
sights which were used most effectively in propeller and jet combat over Korea.
In this regard, the Differential Analyzer again made a most valuable contribution
to the war effort.

In the meantime, however, there were continuous rumblings in the backgvoumd
concerning the removal and disposition of the RDA. It was clearly realized that
this machine was indeed a very old computing machine by existing standards. As
a result, late in 1952, improved types of digital computing machines were obtained
(CPC, etc.) snd certain problems formerly solved on the Analyzer were trans-

vine nu Torred to the digital machines. During this period a determined effort was made

to evaluate the performance of the Anelyzer both om an economic end engineerifig ” -
basis. As the performance of the Whirlwind Computer improved and more inter-
pretive subroutines, conversion programs, floating decimal subroutines, etc. were
made available, it became increasingly apparent that a larger and larger portion
of the work done on the Differentifl Analyzer could be handled on the digital
equipment. Furthermore, as the RDA increased in age its maintenance costs
naturally increased, and since the digital facilities had definitely become part
of the M.I.T. computational program, it became apparent that serious consideration
should be given to the removal of the RDA.

4.0 SURVEY OF THE APPLICATION OF THE DIFFERENTIAL ARALYZER

In retrospect, it is of imterest to point out some of the principal
contributions made by the Analyzer during its 12-year life at M.I.T. IF
must be remembered, of course, that its early applicetions were strongly in-
fluenced by World War II. ©Specificelly, the machine was completed im 1842, and
since the applications during the period 1942-1945 were almost entirely of a
military character, the following types of problems were solved (in some cases
thousands of times):


B=

1) Evaluation of ballistic tables,
2) Guided missile stability and performance studies,
3) Lead computing sight calibration studies,
4) Studies of aircraft propeller performance equations,
5) Study of the design characteristics of submarines, torpedos,
and other underwater craft,
6) Study of the design of catamarans employing the hydrofoil principle.
7) Study of the operations research problem dealing with submarine warfare.
8) Study, design and performance of antiaircraft missiles such as Nike, etc.

As a matterof fact, the contributions mads by the ‘Analyzer were considered
to be sufficiently important that the Navy Department issued the Naval Ordnance
Development Award in recognition of the Work | periveund by the Differential Analyzers
and associated computing staff.

In addition to such studies, the Analyzer was used to design new types of
lead computing sights, tracking systems, aircraft component désign, etc. This type
of activity was carried on by the Instrumentation Laboratory during the years
1950-19564.

It is evident from the above partial list of problems that the Analyzer was
primarily used for the solution of military problems. However, there were a
number of industrial problems solved on this machine. For example:

1) Study of the performance of a supercharge,

2) Study of circuit eolution of electrical networks,

3) Analysis of the dynamic performance of servomechanisms,
4) Studies associated with heat flow problems,

5) Study of a problem in enzyme kinetics, :

6) Studies of the atmospheric oscillation of the upper atmosphere,
7) Studies of a boundary value problem associated with the design of

an ultra centrifuge,

In addition to the above industrial problems, the machine was used to
limited extent for the solution of academic problems arising im M.I.T. thesis
research. For example,

1) Investigation of aircraft performance and comtrol,

32) Investigation of the performance of magnetic relay circuits,

3) Investigation of the stability of gyroscopes,

4) Investigation of the orbit of dynamically-loaded journal bearings,

5) Investigation of statistically-loaded machine bearings,

6) Study of magnetic emplifiers,

7) Investigation of the rolling characteristics of ship models,

8) Study of M.I.T. servomechanisms,

9) Study of differentiation with elements of the Differential Analyser,
10) Investigation of Schrodinger 's Wave Bquation,
11) Bonneville power load allocation study.

It is evident from the above list of problems solved on the Differential
Analyzer that it was used predominantly for military and D, I. C. sponsored


research. As a matter of fact, this was true to such an extent that the
machine did not contribute as effectively to the academic research program

as it might have done had it not been operated un a self®supportnng basis.
Specifically, I believe the operation of a machine computing facility of this
type should be sponsored in such a manner that the financial revenue for its
utilization not be the primary concern. The Analyzer vas always operated under
a self-supporting basis, and this of necessity limited its application to groups
who had adequate means to pay for its use. A better plan,of eourse, is ome in
vhich the Administration would provide adequate financial support to permit the
operation of these facilities for educational training and ressarch.

DISPOSITION OF THE DIFFERENTIAL ANALYZER

The studies concerned with the possible utilization of the digital machines
such as the CPC and Whirlwind, had progressed to such a stage that on February
1, 1954 the Institute decided that the Differential Analyzer should be closed
effective July 1, 1954. Hence, in February-, the present operating steff was

notified of this decision in order that they might make other arrangements for

personal employment. As a result, the operation of the Differential Analyzer
was terminated on June 30, 1954.

During the spring and summer months a certain amount of negotiating was
carried on with various Educational Institutions concerning the possible dis-
position of the machine. Only the following Universities:

a) Northwestern {iniversity, Evanston, Illinois,
b) Purdue University, Lafayette, ,Indiana,

¢) University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa.,
d) The University of Connecticut, Storrs, Conn.

expressed a serious interest in the possible utilization of porticms of this
machine. After several visits by representatives, etec., it ves mutually agreed
that Purdue University would take the major portion of the machine. The remaining
Universities expressed an interest in only 2 small part of the RDA.

Once it became apparent that the RDA was not to be removed and reinstalled
as & complete working unit at some other locz:iion, plens were rapidly formulated
for its actual removal. Specifically, early in September, Dr. Stratton arranged
for an M.I.T. appropriation of $5000 (Operating Account 1978.41) to co¥er the
cost of removing and dismantling of the RDA. On August 17, 1954, Prof. G. 8.
Brown officially notified verious members of the M.I.T. family of the decision
to remove the RDA and asked them to express their interest in possible use of
machine components. Therefore, in approximately six weeks a definite decision
was made regarding the dizatribution of the Analyzer. On Octohar 4, a crew of
8 technicians began to dismantle the RDA.

Table I contains the names of sister Institutions, various M.I.T. projscts,
and the type and amount of RDA equipment which they received. Roughly spesking,

Purdue University was given one-third of the RDA and other groups received the
rest.


TABLE I

DISTRIBUTION OF THE ROCKEFELLER DIFFERENTIAL ANALYZER

Group Individual ! Equipment Received Quan.

Purdue University Prof. Geldmacher Integrator, Setting Mechanism, 6

Tre Servo Panel & associated equips,
Independent Veriable Control

| Circuit 1
4=ghaft Adding Units & Servos 2
Output Table & Servo Panels 1
Digit-Decade Differentials 2

Counters & Servomechanisms 6
Main Power Supply, Oscillator,eto} 4

Univ. of Connecticut Prof. J. L. C. LBf Integrator, Setting Mechanism
= Setting Mechanism Relays
| S=Shaft Differential
Miscellaneous Relays

Museum of Science Mr. Bradford Washburn Integrators & Setting Mechanism

Franklin Institute Mr. A. Co Carlton Integrator & Setting Mechanism
| Four=Shaft Unit

Graphic Arts Research
oundeatlon Prof. S. Ho Caldwell Integrators 3
S=Shaft Unit

Western Electric Relays
Malticontactors

Elec. Engg. Dept. Prof. S. Ho Caldwell New Automatic Electric Relays
Used Western Electric Relays
Crossbar Switches (10 vert.6 pt)
5 9 (20 vert.6 pt)
Multicontactors


Group

Elec. Engge. Dept.

Elec. Engg Depto

Servo Laboratory

Feedback Control Lab.

Dynamic Analysis Lebo

Elec. Engg. De pt °

«The

Prof. To Fo. Jones Integrator & Setting Mechanism
Decade Differential
Counters

Tape reading mechanisms

Western Electric Relays
Crossbar Switches(10 vert,8 pt)
R » (20 vert,4 pt)
Multicontactors (60 pt)
Stepping Switches
Motor Generator Set:
25 hp Induction Motor
48v Generator
250v Generator
Mein Power Control Panel

Prof. Do Ae. Huffman

Prof. E. Ho Boehne Western Electric Relays
Crossbar
Multicontactars

Mr. Ho M. Teager Western Electric Relays
Crossbars (10 vert, 3 pt)

Crossbars (20 vert, 4 pt)

Prof. Go Newton
Mr o Jo Ward

Input Tables
Vector Units

Function Units
Decade Differentials

Prof. C. E. Tucker Westarn Electric Relays
Crossbar Switches (10 vert,6 pt)
Multicontactors

Motors

22 gauge Telephone Wire,

3200 ft. reels (color coded)

Mr. Ho Eo. Laurencs Digit Decade Differentials

ES SEs CEI GEE AEE SRE SE SRA GES ewes WEES RD Se | SS SEED SRE WAS SEED GEES SEE EEE SCE CRED WEED SRI Ge Seem SEES S——

CW Oh =

713

HOO; ®


Group

Instrumentation Lab,

Flight Control Lab.

Acoustios Labs

Naval Supersonic Labs

Rocket Research Soc.

Tech Model Railroad

, Individual Equipment Received Quan,
Mre Co Lo Emmerich Western Electric Relays 4
Crossbars 2
Multicontactors (10 vert.) 20
Terminal Blocks 65
Mr. Re Phagen Servo Panels 6
Relay Control Panels 4
Digit Decade Differential 1
Mr, To. Ko. Naylor Tape Punch Unit 1
Tape Reading Mechanism 2
Rolls of 76 mm. Paper Tape 25
Mr, S. Briggs Digit Decade Differential 1
Servo Panels 2
Multicontactors (60 pt.) 26
Crossbars (4 pt.) o
Western Electric Relays 03
Mr. Be. Woznick Western Electric Relays 65
Dunco Power Relays 41
Multicontactars 8
Terminal Blocks 10
Panel Lights & Sockets 120
Misc. Wiring and Panels
Mr, We. Jo Eccles We Eo Type U Relays 2560
Mounting relay strips 60
Multicontactors 45
Terminal Blooks 7
Slow Release 24v relays 100

Telephone Jack Strips & Switches 30
Misc. Componerts


«7d=

Group Individual Equipment Received Quan.

Building end Power Mr. Je Barraford Ge. Eo Transformer 37.5KVA

2300/116v single #

Ge. Eo. Transformer 856KVA
2300/116v Single

Ge Eo Transformer 10KVA
2300/230/116v Single #

3S hp Motor end Compresser

O=S Cubicle

3 hp 230v Motor

$15,000 Precipitron and associated

equipment

=

ep Ca


AT ie a

5.1 PURDUE UNIVERSITY NEGOTIATIONS

The Division of Engineering Sciences at Purdue University agreed to
supply the necessary manpower to dismantle the components in which they were
interested. Of course, they also agreed to pay all costs associated with the
transportation of sald equipment to Lafayette, Indiana. Accordingly, Profes-
sors Geldmacher, Anderson and Mr. Coon arrived at the Institute on October 7
to assist with this work. Im approximately one week their portion of the
machine had been dismantled and suitably packed and crated for tmailor ship-
ment to Indiana. ‘

In connection with the work performed for Purdue University, Professor
‘Geldmacher requested the expenditure of certain labor and materiel expenses.
For example, the salaries of electrical technicians, carpentors, steel cutters,
cost of lumber, etc., were expenses which were authorized with the definite
understanding that Purdue University would reimburse M.X.T. Table II contains
: 8s breakdown of this type of expense and indicates the magnitude of the invoice
($923.42) which has been sutmitted to Purdue for payment.

TABLE IX

RDA REMOVAL EXPENSES INCURRED BY PURDUE UNIVERSITY

Hours
Electrical Technicians Reg. Overtime Total
Caufield, Joe 14 22 $ 92.12
Goos, John 46 23 176.41
Eay, Richard 13 4 38.00
Sears, Jack 10 21.90
Simms, Al 35 58.10
1i8 49 $386.53
ters

Vages 56 24 345.51
Steck and Materials 116.98

Steel Workers

 

 

Vages 0 8. 74.40
TOTAL EXPENSE 174 81 $923.42

Tames a Ee rer TE ES Se Tee Te eee


5.3

9

In passing, it may be well to mention thet the entire DA was dismantled
and largely removed from the premises during a two-week period covering October
4 - 16 inclusive. A later section of this report contains a detailed statement
regarding the cost of the entire dismantling and removal operation.

Purdue University intends to utilise their portion of the RDA for educational
treining and research, and as such, they hope to have their machine installed
and in operation &t the beginning of the spring semester. In this connection,
it is well to emphasize that although the physical machine components have been
delivered to Purdue, it is still necessary to provide them with adequate circuit,
machine component, etc. wiring diagrams which will enable thes to reassemble the
machine properly. This means that wiring diagrams, etc. have yet to be photo-
stated and released to them for their use.

In addition to the RDA facilities, Purdue is procuring & fairly large
installation of electronic analogue equipment. In fact, $30,000 worth of Good-
year equipment has been ordered. The Purdue Statistical Division (which operates
a moderate-size punched-card installation) has recently received an intermediate
size digital computer from the Consolidated Engineering Company. Professor
Geldmacher made the foliowing statement about their plans: « « . Purdue does
not intend to remain behind in the rapidlii-expanding field of analog and digital

computation. . . It is evident that the University has a rdther ambitious long-
range plan.

OTHER INSTITUTIONAL NEGOTIATIONS

In addition to the majér contribution to Purdue University, The University
of Connecticut, The Franklin Institute (Philadelphia), The Museum of Science
(Boston), The Graphic Arts Research Foundation (Cambridge) received various
components from the DA which will be used primarily for educational training,
teaching, and research. Since several of these groups are museums, certain
choice portions of the Anslyzer were released to them in order that they might
serve as characteristic museum pieces illustrating the state of art prevalent
on the RDA.

In addition to the sbove-mentioned educational institutions, a considerable
amount of machine components, notably vacuum tubes, resistors, relays, etc. were
donated to Belmont High School. This equipment is to be used as part of the
Vocational Training Program in radio and electronics which is being presented
at the high school level. This contribution should achieve a very useful educa-
tional purpose.

M.I.T. RESEARCH PROJECTS

It is also evident from Table I that a number of M.I.T. projects have
received components from the RDA. In certain cases, e.g., Dynamic Analysis
Control Laboratory (DACL), Flight Control Laboratory (FCL), Servomechanisms
Laboratory (REAC), Acoustics Laboratory, etc., the components will be incor-
porated into other computing machines. In other cases, the equipment will be
used for graduate thesis research. This is largely true for all the equipment
released to various members of the Electrical and Aeronauticil Engineering
Projects.


fe a

-310-

In addition to the M.I.T. academic projesgts, a certain number of relays
and minor machine components were released to several student organisations:

The Rocket Research Society, The Tech Model Railroad, etc.

5.4 EXPENSES INCURRED

IN THE REMOVAL OF THE RDA

Table III contains a detailed breakdown of the number of working hours,
hourly rates, etc. for the personnel as well as other expenses which have been

incurred on the RDA under Account No. 1979.41.

When one considers some of the

original estimates which were made concerning the cost of the removal of the

RDA, the amount $2638.59 is indeed a relatively small sum.

It must be understood that operations of this type naturally require
considerable time of certain administrative personnel which; of course, do not

directly appear as expense items in the above Table III.

mentioned cost of RDA removal is slightly misleading.

TABLE III

LTA | 1ST 0 ALY) A fr A — We S—

TOTAL COST OF REMOVING THE RDA

Electrical Technicians

Caufield, Joe

Goos, John

Eay, Richard

Sears, Jack
Simms, Al

Carpenters
Wages

Stock and Materials

Steel Workers

Wages

Supervision

Miscellaneous

Telephone, Telegrams-, Materials

TOTAL REMOVAL COST

Less Purdue Expenses

*Estimated cost

NET M.I.T., COST

Hours
Reg. Overtime

80 29.25
198 155.35
70.62

80
104

56 24

Sub
Total

$242.80
944.40
141.24
175.20
_186.94

$345.51

_116.98

Thus, the above-

Total

$1690.58

462.49

74.40

361.12

50.00%

$2638.59
_933.42

$1715.17


313.

Vhen the Instrumentation Leboratory stopped using the RDA om July 1, 1954,
it was no longer necessary to maintain the machine shop in 7-302 for RDA main-’
tenance. Accordingly, all of the equipment in the RDA shop, which had been
purchased during the 4-year interval that Instrumentation Laboratory operated
the shop (1950-1954), was returned to the Instrumentation Laboratory.

Table IV contains a list of the equipment which was returned to Mr. T.
J. Ryan, property officer, on July 1, 1954.

TABLE IV

Tl A Il IA, TEDW WN lle AE,

 

WORSE UBER RTL AT em A

 

RDA SHOP EQUIPMENT RETURNED TO INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY

WE AAAS

 

Equipment
Quan. Description No.

1 4 Drawer Metal Letter File 783-1
1 Linley Vertical Milling Machine complete 783-2

with standard equipment including cri-

terion boring head with adapter and 6

collets
1 Floor-type Fan | | 783-3
1 Nichols Dividing Head (Serial #A-1536) 783-4
1 Nichols Swivel-base Vise 783-5
1 16" Desk-type Fan 783-6
1 Water Cooler 822-3516
1 Marchant Calculator -13082
1 Marchant Calculator 822-287
1 IBM Typewriter 7139-110

1 IBM Typewriter 822-3673


-12~

At a conference held on May 24, 1954, attended by Professor C. Floe,
Dean Harrison end F. Verzuh, the disposition of the capital goods, machines,
stock and materials, etc. available in the RDA machine shop was considered.
It was decided that the RDA shop equipment was to be transferred to Room 10-481
where it will be reactivated as a shop to be used in connection with the com-
putational activities which have been recently transferred to Building 10.
Professor G. 8. Brown expects to use & machinist from the Electrical Engineering
Shop to organize the new shop.

Not all of the equipment available in the RDA Shop has been moved to
Room 10-481. For example, en Allen Drill Press (Model No. 2) was given to Mr.
Esllenbach of the Physics Shop (Room 6-014) at the direction of Dean Harrison.

Table V contains a list of the principal pieces of machine shop equipment
which were moved to Room 10-481 on July 15, 1954. In addition to these capital
goods, a considerable amount of metal stock and materiels ($1465) was also
transferred at that time. The entire facilities of a 3-man shop (working benches,
metal cabinets, tools, equipment, etc.) were also transferred intact to the new area.

    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
 

TABLE V
RDA MACHINE SHOP EQUIPMENT TRANSFERRED TO ROOM 10-481
Bodel Purchase
Description Ho. Price
Ven Normen Milling Machine 12 $1655.
South Bend Lathe 187A 1152.

3/4 hp. 3 phase, 220v Motor
Motor controlunit

Collet draw bar, center rest

6" 4-jaw independent chuck

5" 3-jaw universal chuck

#2 Eyerede boring bar holder

3 boring bars

1/2" Jacobs drill chuck and arbor

Pratt & Whitney Lathe
Starke Lathe (10")
Johnson Cut off band saw
Dumore Grinders
Walker Turner Drill Press
Floor-type Drill Press
Bench Master Punch Press
Reed Surface Grinder
Metal Cabinets

Complete line of auxiliary equipment
for above


-13-

7.0 INSTITUTE SPACE REALLOCATION

The removal of the RDA will naturally serve to release a number of bays
of space in Building 7. Specifically, 24350 sq. ft. of space have been released
as 8 result of the removal of the RDA. The following breakdown indicates the
space involved:

 

Bay Area (sq. ft.)
7-302 (2) 700
7-303 (4) 1400
3-329 (1) 350
2450

As a matter of fact, the machine shop which formally occupied the two bays
in 7-302 has already been transferred to Room 10-481 and the two bays in
7-302 are currently occupied by the Educational Council.

The remaining 5 bays of space (1750 sq. ft.) are to be occupied by the
Architecture Department. The receipt of this 2500 sg. ft. of space should

“certainly help to alleviate their space requirements.

8.0

hn an

CONCLUSION

This memorandum contains some of the facts sssociated with the removal of
the RDA. A brief description of the historical background of the mechine, a

survey of its applications, and disposition of various components are described
in considerable detail.

A breakdown of the expenses incurred in this operation isgiven, and it
is of interest to note that only $2638.59 was required to remove this "200-ton
giant” from the M.I.T. premises. Perhaps of equal interest is the fact that it
only required 60-man days (over a 2-week period) to accomplish this removal.

It is hoped that this report contains sufficient information to properly
ecknowledge the financial assigance received from the Rockfeller Research
Foundation. Furthermore, it should serve 28 a record of the disposition of the
equipment contained on the machine. In this regard, it is perhaps well to men-
tion that an entire power plant facilities, notably, power transformers, a motor
generator set, an air compressor, a precipitron unit, etc., have been given to
Buildings and Power for other M. I.T. use.

in loging. it is evident that the RDA has served & very useful purpose
in the Institute. However, like all things, it had a limited life and certainly
had become obsolete by existing standards of the large-scale computing equipment.
It is therefore only proper that it should be removed and that other modern
computing eguipment be installed to serve in its place.

F. M. Verzuh
November 1, 1954


1.0

4.0

5.0

6.0

Verzuh, F. M.

Grossimon, H. P.

Verzuh, F. MH.

Verzuh, F. M.

Verzuh, F. M.

Caldwell, S. H.

 

BIBLIOGRAPHY

 

 

Report on the Four-Shaft Adder Unit, January 9, 1950.

An Automatic Curve Follower for the Electromechanical

Differential Anslyzer, M. 8. Thesis in Electrical
Engineering, September 1850.

Summary Report of Center of Analysis Activities on
AMC Contract during peri. period July 1, 1949-Dec . 31, T1049.

Summary Report of Center of Analysis Activities performed
for the Air Materiel Command during the Period January

1, 1950 - September 30, 1950.

Memorandum gonverning. Transfer of RDA to the Instrumentation
Laboratory, July 22, 1950.


