RELIMINARY
PROGRAM

- Page 2

3 u

1:.

1:15 p.m.

3 pan.
1.

2.

5:30 p.171.

6:115 p.m.

FRIDAY,
JANUARY 10

9 a.m.

 

Concurrent sessions at llzhO a.m. Thursday, January 9 (continued):

An informal meeting for newcomers in college public relations, conducted
by Walter E Milne, Assistant to the Director of Public Relations at M.I.T.

92$) house-clinic at VSGBH—TV. A number of members of the station staff
will be on hand to discuss programming, production, publicity, and other
problems associated with television activities - both commercial and
educational. Peter I‘Jinn, Director of Public Relations for L'JGBH—TV, host.

 

Luncheon at the M.I.T. Faculty Club, Sixth Floor, 50 Memorial Drive,
Cambridge.

James & Jordan, National President of A.C.P.R.A. and Director of Univer-
sity Relations at the State University of Iowa, will speak on "The People
Vs. Educational Public Relations: Court of Public Opinion, 1965."

. L
TWO concurrent sessions:

£13 lively arts in E news, a discussion of how to publicize the role of
art, drama, music, and other "cultural" subjects in a college education.
Among the speakers will be:

 

 

Albert Bush-Brown, Assistant Professor of Architectural History, M.I.T.

William & Dooley, Head of the Division of Education, Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston.

Bartlett y; Hayes, 273:, Director of the Addison Gallery of American Art
at Phillips Academy, Andover.

 

An informal session on sports publicity, arranged by El: Henry Johnston of
Harvard and Ernest A: Roberts of I~T.I.T. (and the Boston GLOBE).

 

Arthur & Little, Inc., will entertain members of District I A.C.P.R.A.
and their guests at a reception in the Regency Room, Somerset Hotel,
LLOO Commonwealth Avenue, Boston.

Banquet in the Regency Room.

District I will award its annual ~citation.

% Fred h Whipple, Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
and Professor of Astronomy at Harvard, will discuss from his recent per-

sonal experiences some new aspects of the interrelationships between
scientists and the press.

 

 

 

The annual business meeting of District I, in the Little Theater of Kresge
mitorium.

14: EE- Johnston, Executive Director of A.C.P.R.A., will report on develop-
ments in national headquarters.

Charles A: Hall (University of Rhode Island) and Howard _S_._ Curtis (Brown
University) will present the report of the Committee on By—Laws.

Stephen A_.- Kezerian (Yale University) will report for the Nominating Com-
mittee.

 

 

21.5. Resolutions Committee will make its annual report.

And there will be time for any other business which may come before the
house.