Minutes of the Fifth Meeting
of the Committee on Machine
Methods of Computation -2-

under what arrangements Verzuh can be supported financially. If
it turns out that Verzuh cannot be spared this coming term, it
was suggested that Verzuh be given a year's leave of absence, be—
ginning in June, to prepare for his orals and to get well along
in his thesis (perhaps even complete it).

Booton has indicated that, if me were asked to pass a
qualifying examination including electronics, he might have to
postpone his examination for a term in order to brush up on this
subject. The Committee investigated the possibility of Booton's
taking the qualifying examination in mathematics (his course work
indicates that this might be possible). The Committee felt that,
if he were to continue his registration in the Electrical Engi-
neering Department and take his thesis with an Electrical Engi—
neering supervisor, Booton shoula have some knowledge of elec-
tronics and that it would he therefore advisable for him to take
the additional term to prepare for an examination of the type
mentioned in the last minutes. On the other bend, if Booton
still wished to take the mathematics qualifying examination, he
should then transfer his registration to the Mathematics Depart-
ment and expect to take his thesis with a Mathematics Department
supervisor (although there could be readers for the thesis from
the Electrical Engineering Department). This latter alternative
might mean that he would have to modify his plan for thesis to
some extent, including more mathematics in the research, but in
the end it was felt that this is desirable. rhere was some in-
dication that Carrus, mentioned in the previous minutes, should
also consider these alternatives. Consequently, no action will
be taken on a pessible modified Electrical Engineering qualify-
ing examination to be given in February, as mentioned in the pre-
vious minutes, until Kopal (and possibly horse) has talked to
Booton and Carrus and found out their desires in this matter.

January 3, at which time the Committee will take up the continu-
ing question of courses in the field of macnine computation, and
will start the consideration of possible contracts for the su -

port of some of the machines at the Institute.

Philgﬁyﬁrse, \\

Chairman