AT THE M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER INTO METHODS FOR
MAKING HIGH-SPEED DIGITAL COMPUTERS EASIER TO USE
BY THE OCCASIONAL USER

Statement of the Problem - Large, electronic digital computers
have great potencialitvies tor advancing research in the many areas
which require a great deal of drudge calculation, but up to now
their potential capabilities have been hampered by a "mismatch"
between machine and possible user. Special input eguipment is not
yet designed to allow masses of experimental data to be fed directly
to the machine; special output equipment is needed in order to display
resulte in compact and easily understandable form: and the present

. ¢ode of instructions to the machineg the "machine langauge" is not

easy to learn or to use.

The basic difficulty is that electronic computers are extremely
complex pieces of eguipment and a great deal of study will be
required before we can understand its behavior well enough to be
able to control it effortlessly and flexibly. At present one who
wishes to use a large computer often has to spend three to five months

developing, encoding and testing a program to instruct the machine how

to perform the necessary millions of operations which, at the end, the
computer will carry through in a few hours. True, these five months
of preparation plus The few hours of actual computation may be much
shorter than the several years required to obtain the same results by

using a desk computer, nevertheless it is obviously desirable to

devise procedures which will shorten this preparation time, even at
the expense of additional machine time.

Pro for Research on Machine Capabilities - In order to
learn how GO make digital computers casier to use one must have a
machine of large capacity, a large supply of possible computations
to be done, drawn from a wide variety of scientific fields, plus a
staff which thoroughly understands the machine behavior and is
interested in working with the prospective users in order to simplify
methods of use, With this combination of equipment and starff it
should be possible, in a few years, to work out special operating
programs, additicnal input and output eguipment and other technigues
which will considerably reduce the time and effort required to get
& problem s8olved by the machine,

The M.I.T. Computation Center - The one place in the United
states where this combination of machine, variety of problems and
staff already exists is at M.I.T. This past year IBM has installed
a 704, of the most up-to-date capacliy for the use of the college
and universities of New England. M.I.T. has contributed most of the