Extension of NSP G2940 Page 6
Enclosure B, Continued

card-punching, testing and running of their problems. We

estimate $50,000 a year can come from payments from other
rojects for the programming service described, leaving about
70,000 a year to be obtained from other sources.

The Rockefeller Foundation has granted the Computation
Center about $100,000 for three years, beginning July 1, 1957,
for the support of a staff to investigate applications of
digital computers in the soecial sciences. Thus only about
$35,000 a year is needed to complete the support of the Center.
staff, enough to support that part of the staff concentrating on
the physical science aspects of the activity. In order to get
our plans well under way, this grant should be continued for
about three years (as with the Rockefeller grant), after which
tg: program should be re-evaluated to determine needs beyond
t t date o >

Proposed Research - Possible Initial Directions of Investigation

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input languages;
the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical, logical or
business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and auto-
matic error analysis.

3. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly sultable for use by digital computers; such as more
general expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomial sums for
simulating standard functions by a common block of instructions
but small separate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and
metheds of automatic determination of best grid spaeing, by trial
plus Richardson extrapolation or other means.

4. Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques for
communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, inecluding possidble
improvements in input-output eguipment.

6. Experimental analysis and control using data trans-
mitted directly between computer and experiment.

T- Investigatlion of micreprogramming and other methods for
increasing the flexibility of computer design. The possibility
of inglusion of a very flexible control unit in a large-secale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.