COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
uvutes of o th Meet
Academic Year 151-352

Persons Present: S. II. Caldwell, H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester,
C. Lin, P. M. Morse, E. Reissner, D. P. Shoe-
maker, V. P. Starr

Morse reported that a proposal for continuation of the
joint Whirlwind-part-time-assistant program had been sent in to
ONR, as requested. This was a formality to insure continuation
of the project for a further year. Morse also reported that the
FPirst Quarterly Report was about ready for distribution, ana re-
minded the Committee that the individual reports for the second
quarter were due the middle of December. Forrester reported that
a numbar of the assistants were already working at Whirlwind.

Professor Shoemaker, who has recently come to the
Chemistry Department from CalTech and is to study crystal struc-
ture by x-ray technique, discussed the needs in his research of
computing facilities. He stated that the procedure at CalTech in
Pauling's group was to use IBM equipment in buildin; up the
Fourier series, giving the electron density in a given crystal
structure. A discussion ensued regarding the possibility of
using Whirlwind for the same types of calculation. Forrester men-
tioned that Mr. S. C. Abrahams, of Professor von Hippel's Insula-
tion Laboratory, was discussing the same problem with the staff
of Whirlwind and suggested that Professor Shoemaker attend these
conferences. An invitation was also glven to.Professor Shoemaker
to attend the weekly seminars on Machine Methods.

Professor Starr outlined two problems of present and
future interest in the Meteorology Department. One was a matler
of integrating total flow and temperature conditions across a sur-
face perpendicular to the earth and parallel with a longitude
circle. In this case, a great deal of data haa to be amassed and
integrations have been carried on by use of IBM equipment. Another
problem of possible future interest is the integration of differ-
ential equations for mass flow of the atmosphere, eventually to
determine the stapllity of various rotational motioens. These
equations are fundamentally non-linear and might be averaged to
be considered as a2 two=dimensional problem. It was agreed that
this problem probably would need some digital machine for solu-
tion in the investigation. The particular machine most appropriate
was left to the future.

/‘/'*—_ m—