Extension of NSF G2940 - Page 7
Enclosure B, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommnication
between computers, ineluding the possibility of cycles different
in length or kind running simultanecusly with frequent comparison,
€.8., several single-accumulator computers with common memory,and
the behavior of a computer with multiple eccurmmlators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a 704 by utilization of
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence conver-
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration.

FPacilities:

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TO4 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetie core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 4,000
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpha=-
betic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3 off-line
magnetic-tape-controlled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled card
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the TO4 there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
machine rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated
by IBM. A
The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Sinee the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment. -

Personnel - Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Assoclated
with the Project:

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his eareer in theoretical physiecs sinee
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Bush differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physices at Princeton in 1920 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 19365 "Methods of Operations Researeh"” (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 1957,
and about a hundred journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. FPFor further blographic details
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project. -