INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION

37:83 THIRD STREET CAMBRIDGE 42, MASSACHUSETTS UNIVERSITY 4-6990

April 27, 1956

Professor P. M. Morse

Physics Department

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
77 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

I spent almost two hours with Mr. Gans and Mr. Haber in
New York on April 18. The discussion was primarily concerned
with the possibility of removing two pillars now at the entrance to
the 704 room. I feel that these pillars must be removed so as to
give us access to at least 400 square feet of floor space, which is
now useless. These pillars also appreciably reduce the visibility
of the 704 installation from the visitor area.

I was told that a four foot wide cement beam would be
required to support the 55 foot span; that there was not enough
room for this in the ceiling; that this would prevent putting air
conditioning into the ceiling of the 704 room. I suggested making
the rear wall of the 704 into a false wall for carrying air ducts, but
was told this was impossible because of the windows in the wall. I
suggested doing away with the windows, but was told this was
architecturally impossible.

I do not agree with Mr. Gans about architecture and the
view of the building from the outside. I certainly do not want to
put up a building which looks "bad." However, I believe that a
solid wall can be built, still making the trim on the outside of the
704 room fit the rest of the building.

We left this at an impasse, hoping to get further information
in the next few days. I feel that the working use of the inside space
is being subjugated to the outside appearance.

We did agree that the false floor under the 704 could be

extended five feet closer to the main building. This is of limited
use, unless the above mentioned two pillars can be eliminated.

WORLD HEADQUARTERS: 590 MADISON JIB IAL 22, N.Y, TELEPHONE PLAZA 3-900


Professor P. M. Morse -2- April 27, 1956

I then talked to Mr. Deri about the air conditioning equip-
ment and was told it would take substantially all the basement. Also,
they could not do any more work on that until the 704 layout was com-
pleted. Ido not agree with this, since the ducts can be laid anywhere
in the false floor to the machines. I felt I could not argue this over
the telephone so it was dropped.

There is to be another meeting in Mr. Peterson's office at
MIT on April 23, 1956 at which time we will try to resolve the
final decisions on the questions raised above.
Sincerely yours,

ST Hel

'G. T. Hunter

GTH;jlb
cc: Professor F. Verzuh- MIT


