PROPOSAL FOR EXTENSION 0? NSF GRANT No. NSF02240

to June 30, 1958

Proposal

 

Although our IBM 704 is now delivered and is in storage at
MIT, delay in completion of the building to house it has delayed
commencement of-the project financed by NSF grant NSF 02940. As
a result, it is estimated that only about $8,000 will have been
spent by June 30, 1957. Staff members, which were to have been
transferred to this project, have been continued on the whirlwind
project until the change-over, and most of them will not be trans-
ferred until summer. It is therefore proposed that the project be
continued until June 30, 1958, with an additional grant of only
$13,000, so that in the full year of full operation, July 1957 to
June 1958, we can operate at the rate of $35,000 a year, as
estimated in last year's forecast. Estimated details of budget
are appended, together with eXcerpts from the original proposal.

Progress to Date

Although the NSF funds have not been used to any extent, work
on the first aspects of the proposed research has gone forward
as rapidly as is possible without the 704 being in running condi-
tion. A complete utility and a post-mortem program have been
developed. and tested out on borrowed 704 time, a much more
flexible assembly program than at present available has been
begun, ready for active coding when our 704 is in operation.
Discussions have been begun with a view to investigating the
incorporation of a flexible output equipment utilizing the
photographic "linotype" equipment called Photon. Many programs
of importance in physics and engineering have been, or are being
translated from Whirlwind language to 704 language, such as the
‘ work of the Solid State Theory Group under Prof. J. 0. Slater
f; and the large-shower calculations of Prof. Bruno Rossi. The
i meteorology group under Prof. Charney, recently moved here from
‘ Princeton where their work was initiated by Vbn Neumann, is
planning to use a substantial amount of machine time, and will
require the advice and help of our staff to program their various
calculations. We will be assisting the Harvard Observatory staff
in calculating satellite orbits in preparation for, and during,
the IGY satellite "shoots". Dr. S. Ulam of Los Alsmos, who has
been a Visiting Fellow to the Center this year, has been assisting
us develop "Monte Carlo" techniques. Prof. John McCarthy of the
Dartmouth Mathematics Department (one of the New England colleges
participating in our program} will be here next year and will be
interested in developing machine logic and in further investiga-
tions of the behavior of "automate" by means of simulation pro-
grams. The staff of the MIT library is interested in exploring
the possibilities of storing and recovering information by
machine methods and a project in the MIT Language Department on
machine translation, supported by the Rockefeller Foundation,
expects to use our equipment to test out their ideas. Other

groups, at the 23 participating colleges, are planning further
work.

.} ,


Extension of NSF 02940

Plans for Next Year

All of these projects, and mom, will stretch the capabilities

 

 

and energies of the Computation Center staff. We expect to add

two more senior staff members this swine:- and hope to-persuade two

men now completing their Doctor's degrees to stay on as Junior
staff members for a year or two. It is certain that most’of the
research subjects outlined in our original proposal to NSF will

be begun this coming year; it can be expected that the NSF portion

of support for this work will reach the yearly rate of $35,000
as indicated earlier, and it is expected that this yearly rate
will continue at about the same level for several further years,
as was forecast in our original proposal (see Enclosure 3).

We therefore request that Grant NSF 02940 be extended to
June 30, 1958, with additional funds of $13,000.

Enclosures A and B

Signed

\
”31:11.1ng Morse, Direct—5:0 '

14.1.1‘. Computation Center
Principe; Investigator

Carl F. Floe
Assistant Chancellor

".Dr. P. 73. F’osﬁerjmﬁire‘ctor
Division of Sponsored Research

”H’w'ﬁ """" “IKE?_"*W_“


Extension of NSF 029h0

ENCLOSURE A

gggget for 1257-58

 

 

§a1aries

Fractions of salaries of Senior Scientist:
Principle Investigator (8 percent or $12,500)
Other Faculty Members (1/3 or $9,000)
Salaries or Phll-Time Staff

1 Senior Investigator

1 Junior Investigator

l Technician (computer, programmer)

l Secretary-Typist

Total Salaries

Permanent Equipment (desk computers, special

input or output equipment, etc.)
Expendible equipment and office supplies
Travel

Publication costs

Overheat at 15 percent of Total

Total Yearly Bugget

Less Estimated Balance of Funds under
Grant NSF 62900 as of July 1, 1957

Additional Funds requested for 1957958

 

1,000
3-000

8,000
6,000
5,000
3,000

26,000

2,000
500
1,100
800

 

30,#00
“.560

34.960

 

22,000

12,960


Extension of NSF 029110 Page ll

EHCLOSURE B ‘

Excerpts from Original Proposal for Funds

(modified to bring it up to date)

Name and Address or Institution:-
W
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39. Mass.

Title of Proﬁsed Research_:

Research on Digital Computer Operation and Utilization

Investigation into the patterns of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studies of
numerical analysis and machine programming methods, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence 1
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi- f
mental data and the working out of such specific applications of ‘
machine techniques to problems in science, engineering, and ,
administration as will clarify the basic research and suggest new

 

 

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.,

 

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1959 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Emposed Research - Baciground Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its 701$ machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and

 

In additions the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated their interest in parti-
cipating and have appointed faculty members to be their Insti-

institution. IBM is previding some funds for stipends for

graduate students who wish to leam machine use by helping with
some of this research“

¥


Extension of NSF 029% Page 5
Enclosure 3, Continued

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in.
all phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffedby workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of their own in machine logic, in tech-
niques of machine amputation, and in specific applications of
machine operation to‘experimental and theoretical problems, thus
appreciably broadening the range of applicability of computer
in the physical and social sciences and in engineering. 3

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work
will, in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numeri-
cal analysis and programing techniques, which can be used by the
other participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground
in new fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing
which willbe needed in the application of digital computers to
new tasks.

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which
developed Whirlwind]: programming; others are in various depart-
ments of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of
the participating colleges will Join it for a semester or a year,
on leave from their institution, to work full time at the Center.

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a. year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance and
operating staff of the Center. We believe that a contribution of
about $120,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead‘ in the
research carried on at the Computation Center by students and
staff of MIT and the participating colleges. We list later in
this proposal some of the specific research projects we are pre-
pared to start onu other proJects will develop naturally from
these and from the problems encountered by the other workers at V
the Computation Center”

Part of these additional funds can be obtained from some
of the research projects which will use the facilities of the
Center. Although the use of the machine itself will not be
chargeable, most users will need advice from the Center staff as
to preparing their programs, will need help in detailed coding
and will prefer to have our staff carry out many of the actual
runs on the computer. This will add to the duties of the staff,
and part of the additional cost will be charged to those projects
which can afford this extra service. These students and faculty
members who cannot afford to pay for this help will be able to
use the machine, but will be expected to do their own coding,


Extension of NSF 029% - Page 6
Enclosure B, Continued

card-punching, testing and running of'their problems. We
estimate $50,000 a year can come from payments from other
rejects for the programing service described, leavim about
70,000 a year to be obtained from other sources.

The Rockefeller Foundation Ins granted the consultation
Center about $100,000 for three years, beginning July 1, 1957,
for the support of a staff to investigate applications of
digital computers in the social sciences. Thus only about
$35,000 a year-is needed to complete the support of the Center
staff, enough to support that part of the staff concentrating on
the physical science aspects of the activity. In order to get
our plans well under way, this grant should be continued for
about three years (as with the Rockefeller grant) , after which '
the program should be re-evaluated to determine needs beyond
that date. -

W - Possible mum Directions of Investiggltign

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input languages;

the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical, logical or
business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and auto-
matic error analysis.

3. Development of numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more
general expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomial sums for
simulating standard functions by a comon block of instructions
but small separate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and
methods of automatic determination of best grid spacing, by trial
plus Richardson extrapolation or other means.

ll». Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems.

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques for
communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible.
improvements in input—output equipment.

6. Experimental analysis and control using data trans-
mitted directly between computer and experiment.

7. Investigation of microprogramming and other methods for
increasing the flexibility of computer design. The possibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a. large-scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.


Extension of NSF 029110 Page 7
Enclosure 8, contimed

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommnications
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different
in length or- kind running simltaneously with frequent comparison,
e.g., several single-accumlatorounputers with connon memry,and
the behavior of a computer with multi 1e accumlators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a '70" by utilization of
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence conver- '
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration.

Facilities:

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 704 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 15000
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpha-
betic printer, and punched caH recorder as well as the 3 off-line
magnetic—tape-controlled printer, mgnetic-tapc-controlled eaﬁ'
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 701‘ there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including car-d punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 40; Accounting Machine. The aggregate
macrgae rental, in excess of 50,000 per month, will be donated
by . _

The Type 70‘} EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
comercial computers available today. Since. the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment. »

Personne - Su erﬂgomngﬂministrative Personnel Associate
____l 2 ____._____________d_
with the ngectz

Princi al Investi ator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Emputatlon Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Dish differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.Do in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E, U. Condon 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936', "Methods g4: Operations Research' (with c. E’.
Kimball) 1950, Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 1957,
and about a hundred Journal articles, mamr of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further biographic details
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project. ,


Extension of NSF segue rate 8

Enclosure 3, Continued

Dr. Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at 1411' since 19%, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 19130.
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the -
utilization of various analogue commting equipment - differential
analyzers, etc., as well as a complete line of di tal machines
ranging from the EM Type 601 through the Type 7 . He received
a 3.5. degree in Electrical Engineering from the university of
Denver in 1940, a $1.8. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 19%, and a Sc.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project.

Professor P. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at
MIT since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 19%.
He is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers"
(19kg), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis (1956) as Well as a number of articles in
various research Journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the project.

Dean R. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind Pro-
graming Research Group for three years, has been head or the
group since July 1955 and will head the programing research group
in the new Computation Center. he obtained his 3.8. in Electrical
Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate work in
Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his doctor's
thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience in the use
of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment and with
Whirlwind I. A fraction of his salary will be charged to the
Project.

Dr. F. J. Corbat6, whose primary responsibility will be the
administration and supervision of the IBM research assistantship
and associateship program of the 23 New England colleges at the
Center,7 will also carry out research and do consulting on, research
problems, especially in the physical sciences. He received a 8.3.
in Physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1950 and
a Ph.D. in theoretical solid state physics research at MIT in 1956.
During 1951~56 he was a research assistant in machine computation
and numerical analysis at MIT and is now a Research Associate at
the Center. Part of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center’s Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center will be available for
advice and cooperation. From time to time, if one of them can
supervise a part of the Preject, part of his salary may be
charged to the Project.


Extension of NS? 02940 Page 9‘

Enclosure 3, Continued

Personnel - Fullo'rime Members or the ProJect:

These will include some former members of the Whirlwind
pregrazmning research group, such as Frank Helms and Sheldon
Best and others. Some of the best or the 1324 research assist-
ants at the Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate
periods, at hall time, after they have finished their graduate
work and have relinquished their assistantships.


