TT i —— IT I — I I  ——— a s———— TT
>i. a a A I I SN Sr NE ET CS er NL

1620 NEWSLETTER - 1620 NEW ENGLAND UNIVERSITIES USERS GROUP

 

 

 

Number 4 July 25, 1961

a

 

 

Tw -

 

 

hie is the fourth of an informal exchange of information of particular interest Lo
those New England Universities having IBM 1620's and also participating in the
M.I.T. Computation Center. Contributions to this Newsletter should be sent to
Mr. M. Loren Bullock, IBM Liaison Office, Room 26-147, M.I. T. Computation
Center, Cambridge 39, Massachusetts. Attached is a current list of the present
members of this New England Universities 1620 Group.

CALL TO MEETING, AUGUST 30, 1961 AT M.L, T._

On Wednesday, August 30, 1961, ll a.m. = 3 p.m., a meeting of all members
of the New England Universities 1620 Group will be held at the new computing
facility at the School of Industrial Management at M.I,T. This is located in
Building 52 on the ground floor in Room 52-031. This ie the same building as
the Faculty Club. The meeting will allow for an informal exchange of program-
rning and technical information so bring your print-outs with you. Mr, Harvey
Willson, Director of the 5.1. M. computing facility has also indicated that there
will be opportunity to use or see demonstrated their 40K, card-only 1620. This
date is in the middie of the one-week 709/90 Programming Course being given
by the M.I. T, Computation Center, 80 there may be representatives already at
MX, T. from the New England Universities. Pleass return the attached form
indicating who (or at least how many) will be attending from your group. One
topic of discussion will be the possibility next summer of a 3 or 4-day workshop
on computing in engineering curriculum.

FORTRAN SUBROUTINE COMPATIBILITY 1620-709

The use of the final F in subroutine names is required when using 709/7090
FORTRAN. Thus the use of SQR(X) or ATN(X) is not permitted on the 709.
To be consistent with both 1620 and 709/7090 only the following subroutine
names should be used:

SINF (X)

COSF(X)
EXPF(X)
LOGF (XX)
SQR F(X)
ATNF(X)

Note also that on the 1620 only one argument is permitted.

LOAD-AND=-GO FORTRAN FROM M.L. T, CIVIL ENGINEERING

A Load-And-Go version of 1620 FORTRAN hae besn developed here, and is
undergoing "field testing' by our users at the present time. The source language
is identical to 1620 FORTRAN and compiles identical programs. A sample
program, which took eighteen and one-half minutes from loading the processor
to punching the first answer on the standard card system, took only seven
minutes on the load and go system.


The processor is being modified to handle a subset of 709 format statements,
and to include extensive, built-in debugging aids. The current version requires
a 40K card machine, (no other special features) but the system including format
statements will also require indirect addressing and additional instructions

(TNS, TNF).

Any questions or comments should be directed te: F. I. Sillay, Room 1-250,
Masgachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Massachusetts.

TWO NEW SUBROUTINES FROM UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS
TT  —— rr ——————————— nD 0 43 CST US By 'T —

Dr. Robert 1.. Rowell writes that he has prepared a detailed procedure for altering
the Fortran Processer (20K -paper tape) to add subroutines. Tapes and write=ups
are available from him.

Twe new subroutines have already been added to the 1620 Fortran (20K paper tape)
compiler at the University of Massachusetts. These are Format Control, call
name RFS (for typewriter output), and Absolute Value, call name Rig — he
Format Control subroutine allows typewriter control; alphabetic output capability,
and format control of output data. The Absolute Value subroutine gives as a
result a positive value for any variable used as aa argument regardless of the sign
of the data involved, Tapes and write-ups are available on request,

DEDICATION AT UNIVERSITY OCF MASSACHUSETTS
wee ar wa A See et eet on eee So) So

Dr. Rowell has announced that the University of Massachusetts ig presently
planning a dedication of its Research Computing Center on September 22 and 23
which would include a meeting of this New England Universities 1620 Group on
Friday afternoon and a special program and dedication on Saturday morning.
Professor Philip M. Morse, of M:1.T. is to be one of the Principal speakers.
Further details and invitations will soon be sent out,

ASSOCIA TION FOR COMPUTING MACHINERY
EE mee ALLE LA SC NS

in case you have not already done so, you should certainly join ACM if you are
at all associated with a Computing Center. The Association publishes the
monthly "Communications", quarterly "Journal!" and the bimonthly “Reviews'',
All of these should be available at a Computing Center. A pplications for
membership may be obtained from Association for Computing Machinery,

14 East 69th Street, New York 21, N, ¥.

BOOK REVIEWS

Do you have a reserved book shelf for the Computing Center, or are vou develop-
ing your own library? Following are some recent books which you should know
about:

Microanalysis of Seciceconomic Systems: A Simulation Study by Orcutt,
I i — a i i Ma Weta et om, AE. 3 AQIS TA, - nr x - : p
reenberger, Korbel, and Rivlin, New York. © arper & Brothers, 196]
Despite the formidable title this is a very readable bool describing a very

speciiic economic medel in terms of us ‘ng it with computer simulation.


A population model is described with extensions and the organization of
704 program is also discussed. The Appendix describes various procedures
of Random Number Generation for computers. The book is therefore an
excellent introduction to what simulation really is and how you go about it,

Advances in Computers, Vol, I, Edited by Franz L. Alt, Academic Press,

o ese are six papers on computing applications which are excellent
summaries of their respective fields. Included is "Numerical Weather
Prediction', "Language Translation', "Programming Computers to Play
Games’, "Machine Recognition of Speech’ and "Algebra of Binary Arithmetic’.

Computer Programming Fundamentals by Leeds and Weinberg., McGraw-
Hill Book Co., 1901. fers is a basic machine language programming book
which uses the 709/7090 as the example throughout. It discusses looping,
indexing, trapping and interrupts, and the use of data channels. It is
oriented toward FAP rather than Fortran. This is an excellent book with

good examples and discourse.

   

Superconducting Computers, by W, B, Iitner and C. J. Kraus. Article
in Scientific American, July, 196i, pp. 125ff. This is an elementary
g«position of cryotrors and thin film cryotrons as computer elements and
gives an excellent introduction to this research development.

   

Article in IBM

evelopment, April, 1961, pp. 106i. This paper
describes some of the newer thinking in associative memories in which
data is obtained from memory on the basis of content rather than location
or address.

 

 

1620 Newsletter No. 4
Digtributed by:

M. Loren Bullock
M.1,T. Computation Center

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

 

 

“% 1 ~ DA
iid en


