July 13, 1959

Dr. Arthur Grad
National Selence Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthurs

This is in the nature of a progress report concerning
a possible Conference of Directors of unlversity computing
centers, about which I wrote you early last spring.

After I wrote you I wrote to about a dozen directors
off the larger university centers asking for thelyx reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
center directors. The answers I received were nearly unanimous.
They were not enthusiastic about another permanent organlzation
in the computer field. They agreed there are a number of probe
lems peculiar to university computing centers which ought to be
talked over in common from time €o time. They wondered if
special meetings could he called about the time of an ACM or
Joint Computer Conference or whether one or two single confer-
ences would not accomplish what was needed. Several of the
letters mentioned specific problems of interest, such as the
problem of flnanclng the computing eenter while still keeping
it avallable for students and faculty, also the questions of
academic standards and the status of research on machines.

Last month I attended a conference called by IBM at
Poughltecepsie for the directors of university computing centers
using IBM equipment. About 30 of the 85 kmown directors of cole
liege computing centers were there, mostly directors of centers
having 650's. We hod an evening seesion concerning this same
problem. There again, the feeling was that it was premature to
talk about a permanent organization. However, I found a much
greater need for general discussion and mituial agreement on
varicus matters among this group which represcnted the smaller
and newer computing centers rather than the representatives of
older and larger centers to whom I had written before. This
group felt the need of support for thelr plang and suggestions
for wnat are wise and unwise means of financing and help in
determining procedures and academic standards. After an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planning group with


Dr. Grad P= July 13, 1959

of Inviting each of these directors, so that there probably
would be between 40 and 50 attending. The attendance would be
larger and probably more representative, of course, if all or
part of the travel expenses of the conferees could be financed.
If this conference were to get out a report which could be used
by the various diractors, present and prospective, and would be
avallable to NSP if so desired, then the editing, prepayving and
publication of this report would need to be financed. My letter
at present is just to sce if NSP is likely to be interested in
such a conference, if they would be wllling te finance some part
of it and, if so, what we should do about it next. I will be
away in Lurope during August and the first part of September so
I will not be on hand at the meeting mentioned in the enclosed
notice. If you have questions which should be brought up to
this meeting, I suggest you send them to Professor Frelberger.
In any ease, I will be back by September 10 and would be glad to
heay your comments then or before I leave on August 5. I think
it 1s about time that this growinz field of university computer
research, education and service be discussed in tems of its
broader implications and necessities. I hope you agree.

Yours,

EQ
Phillip M. Morse

Director

PMM:lwh


TSC ————————e

 

Dr. Grad eRe July 13, 1959

myself as chairman, Professor Walter Freiberger of the Depart-
ment of Mathematics at Brown University as secretary, and other
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next year or two it would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to

college computing centers. The discussions could focus around
four general areas:

l. Budget and administration: What are good and bad ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "sold" and
what fraction should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of machines?
What are the opportunities for theses in these fields, how are
such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted
on the basls of these theses?

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be
offered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of other appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual
content, intimately involving computing machines, are being
given and in what departments?

4, Computing service to university departments: Who in the
college should be given "free time"? What priority system can
be set up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between free and paying users? Vhat are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory commlttces to administer such a
service program?

It was felt that a confercnee on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would result
in a report embodying suggestiong and mutual recmente on these
matters, would be of very great help to many rectors of college
computing centers, particularly those just beginning or planning
to begin. It would gecm to me that NSF would also be intorested
in the results of puch a conference. Certainly the question of
how college computing centers fit into thelr academic structure
and how they can help more completely to educate scientists and
engineers 1s something which has been a subject of discussion in
various parts of NSF to my knowledge. My question to you, there-
fore, i8 an exploratory onc: Is NSF interested in such a confers
ence? Is it interested enough to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, according to
the latest list of Professor Reeves of Ohio State. We had thought


