Minutes of the Eighth Meeting
of the |
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation

Jénuary 17, 1951

grsons Present: H. R. Boyd. C. ®., Draper, H., Laning, C. Lin
% P. M. Morse and E, Beissﬁer ¥ ;

The Committee met with Dr, Draper and his group to discuss
possible relationships, particularly cencerning the differential
anzlyzer., First, we asked the opinion of this group cencerning
possible courses in machine techniques. Draper indicated that
there might be between 15 and 30 men available each yezr for
training end for courses in this field. He indicated that a
basic course with prerequisite M351 and M352 would be needed,

end that, 1In addition, special courses on various types of

mzchines would be useful. This discussion will be of nelp to
the Committee in its further study of the problen,

The Committee went on to discuss the problem of the dif-

 ferential analyzer. Dr. Draper'!s group took over tne analyzar

tae {irst of July. For the first two wontis the mechine was
down veing overhsuled. During October and Novewber it worked
élmost full time on problems for Draper's project. At present
there is avallable a certain amount of time for outside work,
and the project would welcone suggestions fron the Counittee
és to the type of work it could and should take on. It was
polnted out that for the machine to be in operating condition
requlres a staff of ebout 5persons -- one teclinician, one
nuchinist and three progrsmming staff -- and that these people,
with thelr saleries end with the necessary overaead charges,
cost about §20,000 a year. However, for those times when the
machine 1s not in full use some of the staff can be taken over
to work on other parts of Draper's project so that in a con-
tinuing program the cost per year would be somewhzt less then
the $30,000. The indications were that Draper'’s project could
continue to use about forty percent of the differential ena-
lyzer's time almost indefinitely and that about fifty percent
of the analyzer's time might be available for other work.

In answer to & query, Draper stcted thet he felt the
project would probably prefer to continue to control the dif-
ferential analyzer for at least one more year, and that, in the