December 23, 1959
MEMORANDUM

To: F. J. Corbato
P. M. Morse

H. M. Teager

M. Verzuh

F.
From: John McCarth

Subject: Various Methods of Reducing the Pressure on the
Computation Center

1. Nature of the Pressure. Just before the Christmas holi-
day, there was a two day delay on computer runs. The delay has
been over one day for almost the whole of the semester. This
has seriously affected the rate at which research can be done.
In particular, the flexowrliter version of LISP which was essen-~
tially ready at the time of the ACM meeting has dragged on all
fall in debugging, and other projects have been equally slowed.
Undoubtedly, the slow service given by the Center has dis-
couraged new users to a considerable extent, and has made a num-
ber of departments and projects want thelr own computers. I do
not belleve that a lot of separate computers is a solution to
the problem because:

1) Computation costs more per unit in small packages as
well as requiring separate programming systems, etc.
2) It will hamper our TOGO or STRETCH plans.

It is difficult to estimate the increase in effective com-
puter time required to alleviate the queue because the users
who are seriously hampered now will submit more runs if the de-
lay is shorter, and an improvement in service will encourage
more users. We can already use abt least double the computation
facilities we have.

2. Get More 704 Time From IBM. I think we should plan to
be using both Saturdays and sundays and all possible third shift
time by late spring.

3. Departmental Quotas on Time. Across the board cuts in
time grants favor those who learn about them in time to exag-
gerate thelr requests. We do not have enough information about

the quality of the researchers requesting time to cut one off
in favor of another.

Suppose a letter were sent to the five largest department-
al users as follows:

1 fii Vi


MEMORANDUM Page 2,

1) In the last quarter, users in your department asked for
Xx hours, were allocated y hours according to the following rules,

 

 

A -

 

and actually used z hours. A detailed accounting of your de-
partmental use of the TO4 is enclosed.

2) During the next quarter your department will be alloca-
ted w hours. Unless we hear from you. proposing a different
scheme we will divide it between applicants from your depart-
ment according to the following scheme:

1. 80 per cent allocated at beginning of quarter. 10
per cent for new requests during quarter. 10 per cent for sup-
plementary requests during quarters.

2. Priorities will be assigned in the following order

1. Class use
2. Bachelor's theses
3 MS. theses
« Ph. D. theses
5. Research projects

3. Should you prefer to allocate the time yourselves,
or would like us to use a different system we will be happy to
oblige.

The advantage of departmental quotas is twofold:

1. The decisions as to which uses are most effective in
research or in education are put in the hands of those who know
the prospective users best.

2. It makes all department heads and their associates
aware of the pressure on the computer and will make them more
receptive to any efforts proposed to expand the facility.

4. Improved Programming by Users. Users can get more per
machine hour If Chey program better. The Center can help them
progrqgm better by

l. Better descriptions of the programming systems and
procedures. This is a staff problem. A 5 page propaganda ——
booklet may help.

2. Better accounting. The users do not know how much
tlme they use on runs and big users can't discriminate between
thelr programmers. The obsolete 407 accounting procedure should
be replaced by a TO4 program. Programmers responsible for prob-
lems should get biweekly summaries listing each run made, time
used, programmer submitting it. The machine and staff time re-
quired should not be excessive.


MEMORANDUM Page 3.

5. Improved Programml System. I have a number of de-
tailed proposals ior Ernie 8 which we can make in our 704
system quickly and which will save large amounts of tlme.

Here 1 only remark that
1. A large fraction, 40 per cent, of our runs involve
less than .5 minutes computer time but take longer because
l) System tape twiddling
2) Card reading time
3 Operator reaction time
A system which assumes thal every run requires
32K of memory and is of the most complicated sort allowed.

MY main proposals are for an operator system for Fortran
complled decks and a fast-service small job system for SAP
language programs. The latter, if fast-service system runs
were given priority, could cut 50 per cent of our present time
load in 3 and make another 15 per cent program more efficiently
in order to stay in the fast-service system.

This has an important general application. While the demard
for computation from big users is insatiable, the amounts of
computation required per run range over factors of 104 and will

go larger. Small users can eventually be given dlal-tone-like
service without clogging the computer,

6. Making Big Users Pay. There do not seem to ne enough
sultable g users.

T. Enforcement of Allotments. If supplementary allotments
are always available, the allotment system does not really exist.

8. OR Study. Why delay longer?

JMeC/mbw


