196 2.

oS Warszawa, dnia
INSTYTUT MASZYN MATEMATYCZNYCH

Waorszawa 2, vl. Koszykowa 79
Tel 21-84-41 — 49

I AKADEMIA NAUK 11/XT

“krot felegr. IMMAT
177/63 EW
L-idz Professor S.M. Ulam
University of California
Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory
Los Alamos, New Mexico.

Dear Professor Ulam,

Thank you very much for your letter of October 10
and your kind readiness to help me in arranging my possible
stay in the United States. I wish emphasize that as things
now stand one year of gcientiiic training in the U.S.A. is
2 macuver of great importance for me, Hitherto, heing swamped |
with scientific and organization work, I was not able to
leave my post for so long a time. At present my SOJjOurm
to the United States for the academic year 136471968 might
be most real and advisable. The essential question is to
choose an appropriate institution in the U.S.A. and to
obtain its invitation.

 

It seems to me that the easiest and most advantageous
way of getting a scientific stage would be a contract as
visiting professor for the academic school year 1964/65 to
one of the universities in the United States. Several of
my colleagues - mathematicians have already been under such
conditions in the United States, and the results of their
one-year stay were most favorable. |

A contract with a firm like IBM seems to me much more
difficult to be arranged, and the possibility of obbaining
a fellowship, besides beeing difficult too - less advan-
tageous,

As far as a contract with an university is concerned,
may I take the liberty of suggesting the University of
Penne, because, according to my knowledge, there exists
a large group of scientists developping languages and
programming problems which is close to my interest. Moreover,
I am personally acquinted with some scientists of this
University.

In Munich I had the pleasure of meeting prof.M.Rubinoff,
He promised to help us to establish contacts between our
countries. Being Executive Director of AFIP /American
Federation of Information Processing Societies/ he even
promissed to take advise of Dr, Willms M. Ware, the President
of AFIP, in order to manage an exchange of American and
Polish experts, similarly as it was the case of the American-
Russian exchange. In spite of not having any news from


—

 

 

prof. Rubinoff up till nowsI consider his attitude towards our
country being most kind. Furthermore, in Munich I also got
acquainted with Mr, Gorn, the well-known specialist on language
theory at the University of Perma. I have been looking forward
to meeting him in Warsaw in July as a member of the group of
American experts on standards in the field of automatic
programming. Myself beeing appointed their host as director

of the Institute of Mathematical Machines of the Polish Academy
of Sciences. Unfortunately, a smaller group arrived than the
expected one and Mr, Gorn had not been among them.

Among other well-known people belonging ¢o the Computer—
World and living in Philadelphia, I know Mr. i.ssac Auerbach,
the representative of the US. and President of the International
Federation for Information Processing, whom I often have the
pleasure of seing /almost every 10 months/ during the IFIP
conferences, myself being representative of Poland to IFIP.

In case you find that the another university would be
the proper place for my stay, please feel free to arrange
kindly matters up to your opinion.

My ambition would be bo complete my possible scientific
training with proper publications, as well as to extend care
in order to make my stay profitable to the inviting institution.

I would be most happy to visit some other institutions
besides the inviting University. This especially concerns an
university of California as it would permit me to pay a visit
to you.

Enclosed, please find my brief scientific biography
/translated into English/ in case this would occasionally be
needed.

Thavking you most heartly once more for your kindness
and the way in which you take interest in the matter of ny

possible arrival to the U.,S.A., I remain with best wishes and
regards

Yours very sincerely
Food up
i NR AK Er oy

Leon YTukaszewicsz


