In Two Parts—Part 11

Journal

of the

AMERICAN
CERAMIC
SOCIETY

*

 

 

Part 11

*

 

 

Thermal Conductivity

FEBRUARY 1954


JOURNAL
of the

American Ceramic Society

PART II

Copyright 1954, by The American Ceramic Society

EE —

VOL. 37, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1, 1954

TABLE OF CONTENTS

VOLUME 37, NUMBER 2 FEBRUARY 1, 1954

 

 

Journal of The American Ceramic Society (Part Il)

 

14. Pera] Congmtey Ds Cones ot Measurement and Factors Affecting Thermal
IVIL Y OL er AIC NV A LB AS et ae ea ates let ne is a arate aha T— Th C a IVI C f M
a Treg a ann 67-72 ermal Conauctivity: |, Concepis of Measurement
3y W. D. Kingery and M. C. McQuarrie d F a h | a
15 Thermal Conductivity: II. D ” 9 y
: 11, Development of a Thermal Conductivity E | : 3
A ) ¢ ixpression for the
Special Case of Prolate Spheroids. 7. os Bs : 73 74 of Ce ramic Materials
ile fe tinilns aiceiVe ile etini\ ai 2u Ve) lela vain elie lavalle re . QO
By Milton Adams and A. L. Loeb
by W. D. KINGERY and M. C. McQUARRIE
16. Thermal Conductivity : :
ity: III, Prolate Spheroidal Env
- ‘nvelope M «Data for All :
BeO, MgO, ThO,, and Bry. P ethod; Data for Al Oy, The laws of heat flow and methods of measuring quently a study of the factors affecting the thermal conduc-
ML fs EE ss 74-79 thermal conductivity are considered. The ef- tivity of refractory materials and the measurement of ther-
y- ams fects of crystalline nature, impurities, lattice im- mal conductivities at elevated temperatures has been under-
perfections, grain boundaries, porosity, mix- taken. The factors which are believed to affect the thermal
17. Thermal Conductivity: ; tures, and temperature on thermal conductivity conductivity of refractory materials and the extent of the
ivity: IV, ¢ . += Ts ¢ : : : : 2A s :
Comparative rs Parnas for Determining I'hermal Conductivity by a are discussed. There are insufficient reliable present knowledge concerning these factors are reviewed in
, Data ior Pb, ALLO; BeO, and M gO. er S0-84 data to assess quantitatively the effect of most of this paper.
By J. Francl and W. D. Kingery ¢ these factors at present, particularly for elevated
temperatures. II. Laws of Heat Flow
I8§. Thermal Conductivity: V. Hi ineti
ctivity: V, High-Tem Heat may be thought of as the kinetic energy of mot
D : ) perature Method and R : : eat may be thought of as the kinetic energy of motion
nesia, and Beryllia from 1000° to IS00°C... 0. esults for Alumina, Mag- I. Introduction (translational, rotational, or vibrational) of ions or molecules.
By Malcolm NT ais a. I ry Toe RE Sr a a ge S4-88 HE property of thermal conductivity is of importance Although this concept of heat does not lend itself to quantita-
? T= the application of refractory materials since in many tive manipulation as well as does that of thermodynamics
cases the ability to conduct heat or not to conduct heat (where heat is defined as the amount of energy required to
19. Thermal Conductivity: VI, Determinati fC = is one of the primary functions of the refractory. The ther- raise the temperature of a standard substance a definite
velope and Cvlinder Niatharr ation o Conductivity of ALO; by Spherical En- mal conductivity determines the heat flow through a refrac- amount), it should aid greatly in understanding the phenom-
Be Ee nln ee a ele a re Taree ey Je Es 2 SS-90) tory for a given temperature gradient, or determines the tem- ena of heat transfer. It is usual to consider three methods of
Yo Renpgpy en 8 00 SINS SRE TE ie ri 88 perature gradient obtained when a fixed heat flow is employed. heat transfer: (1) conduction, (2) convection, and (3) ra-
In addition, the thermal conductivity is known to have a diation. In any given actual case of the transfer of heat, two
20. Thermal Conductivity: great effect on the thermal spalling resistance and on other or perhaps all three of these methods may be operative. It
for ALO i + VIT, Analysis of Variation of Conductivity with - properties important to the use of ceramic materials. is possible, however, to devise conditions where the amount
Ale BARA ME. ett eran a ity with Femperature The temperature-use limits of special refractories have been of heat transferred by one of these methods 1s much greater
Re ea a Kl fy ee rae Pa ser 91-95 sharply raised by the advent of atomic power and jet propul- than that transferred by the others and then study this case

y 2

By Malcolm McQuarrie

Thermal Conductivity VIII
rials ;

By Arthur L. Loeb

a5 a eval "a

96-99

sion. Data at temperatures up to 2000°C. have now become
of practical interest. The desirability of employing higher
temperature levels in heat engines is that the maximum effi-
ciency possible is greatly increased, but in order to design
such engines, accurate data regarding the thermal properties
of construction materials are necessary at elevated tempera-
tures. Refractory oxides, borides, carbides, nitrides, and sul-
fides, for example, are potentially promising materials for such

as an example of transfer by that method alone.

In conduction, energy (heat) is transferred by the mecha-
nism of interaction between two particles (e.g., ions and mole-
cules), one with a greater amount of energy and the other
with a lesser amount of energy, in such a way that some energy
is passed from one to the other. In the case of a gas, one
molecule may strike another molecule with less kinetic energy
and impart some of its energy to the second molecule. In

22. Thermal Conductivity - = :
mal Sedan > IX, Experimental Investigation of Effect of Porac: , service, but few data are available for the thermal properties the case of a solid, an atom with a certain amount of vibra-
Be er Ee ovo 0 i TOsity on Ther- of these materials, especially at elevated temperatures. tional energy will tend to transmit some of this energy to a
By J. Francl and W_ DY EINEEry a ee ea EEE RA Slat enn 99-107 In addition to a usefulness in atomic energy and jet pro- neighboring ion with less energy through the bond connecting
} pulsion, thermal data are required for design purposes in the them. In convection, heat is transferred by the actual move-
23. Thermal Conductivity: X application of refractories of a more usual nature. Conse- ment of particles with a given energy to another part of the
y: , Data for Seve system where the particles have less energy on the average.

Porosity ral Pure Oxide M

By W. D. Kingery, J. Franc], R. L. Col

le, and T Vasilos

pasa 107-110

The investigations reported herein are part of a program
of research undertaken at the Massachusetts Inslitute of
Technology, Cambridge, Mass. For more detailed informa-
tion about the program and about those conducting the inves-
tigations, see opposite p. 110, this issue.

This means of heat movement is effective only in the case of
fluids. Convection is not considered in this investigation.
In radiation, heat is transferred by the emission or absorption
of radiant energy between particles or surfaces. Since ra-
diant-heat transfer enters into this investigation as an extra-
neous effect, it will be necessary to discuss it briefly in a quan-
titative fashion.


63 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—Kingery and McQuarrie

Vol. 37, No. 9

(1) Conduct 0.006 February 1954 (Part II) Thermal! Conductivity, 1 69
onduction
The fundamental equation of thermal conductivity and and the temperature change with time 1s measured to deter- of an envelope sample of relatively small size which 1s capable
ore hich sera asa definition of thatitermis “mine the thermal diffusivity, k/cp, by a form of equation (4) of being formed from pure materials, and which has nearly
for the particular specimen employed. Various specimen flat isothermals in the central portion. This development
0 = =i aT (1) shapes may be used. In static methods, the sample is al- . then makes possible a new method of absolute measurement
dx = 0.005 lowed to come to a steady state and the temperature distribu- of thermal conductivity having some unique advantages for
g = amount of heat flowing per unit time through an area A. - tion measured to determine the thermal conductivity, k, by ceramic samples of relatively small size.
dT /dx = temperature gradient in a direction perpendicular to A. J an Integr I of Sus (1).
oN, In general, the great i 7 1 vit : : ‘gs
The law states that the amount of heat flowing per socom 5 ee 1s . a my IY tects of Physical and Ghani Compasition on
per unit area 1s proportional to the temperature gr agient an 's 0.004 with that assumed in deriving the mathematical relationships. Th : ; yy
hat the proportionality constant (k) is the thermal conde a In electrical conductors, the difference between the best and Je basis for almost all consideratioris of the elise of cont:
tivity. : . S the worst conductors is a factor of about 10%, and essentially positon on conductivity B the Debye equation for the ther
~ There has been some discussion as to whether or not k - all the flow can be obtained through the better conductor. zu) Sond neywity of crystals! Thisis based on the Concept
Is:2 function of g, ithe am ount of heat Rowing throigh fhe 5 In the case of thermal conductors, the difference between the Sol 1 25a Sysiin of coupled Oscillators which Hen} ie
piece. Experimental evidence indicates that Contiichvity B best and the poorest conductors is only a factor of about 103, De Sache Waves. The thermal‘ conductivity is giveriby
does not vary with the amount of heat flowing,! and there- g 0003 and it becomes extremely difficult to get all the heat to flow € telation
fore equation (1) may be said to be verified by experimental 3 through the test specimen as desired. 1
Ne il Sn a, (1) She 2 Sal oy A method generally employed to insure that heat flows in LF 4’ eo (10)
S Ww Sir shapes it can : a : sais :
a man he a desired pa i 0 provid heat guards to maintain he 0» = mean fs pth of wave cm).
AY : ed cnuntion Bas the torre J i 1ermals in the specimen and prevent extraneous heat flow. v = average velocity of wave (cm. per sec. ™!).
4 the integrated equation has = 0.002 These guard methods are never perfect and can only hope to
ia OB'=—iaTi k= = (B)(Q) (2) reduce extraneous heat flow to negligible proportions. Equiv- For an ideal lattice, A would be infinite if the lattice interac-
Adin ’ AT alent results obtained by various mvestigators for the same tions were completely harmonic. However, anharmonic

ow
--

LN
Lar.

.
oe
»
+
»

*2
*
+
‘a

hb

»
“-

 

(Q = total heat per unit time flowing through body.

B = a factor determined by geometrical shape of body.

AT = temperature difference of two (isothermal) surfaces of body
between which heat flows.

The basic equation governing the flow of heat in a body of
conductivity % is Laplace's equation for heat flow which can
be written*

dT
V(kVT) = cp 0 (3)

A = operator nabla which must be evaluated for particular co
ordinate system used.

¢ = specific heat of material.
p = density of material.
f = time.

This equation is practically impossible to solve as it stands
and it is usually simplified by making the assumptions that,
as far as the conductivity is concerned, the material is homo-
geneous (k independent of position) and isotropic (k indepen-
dent of direction), and that k is independent of temperature.
Then the equation can be written

VE = (4)

[For rectangular coordinates, x, y, z, this equation becomes

dT _ k(OT , OT , OT
[t serves as the basis for any dynamic test of thermal conduc-
tivity where the change in temperature with time at anv point
1S measured. Actually, the quantity k/cp, the thermal dif-
fusivity, 1s measured and the conductivity derived from this
and from a knowledge of the heat capacity and density If
the Stenny state 1s reached such that temperature 1s independ.
ent of time,

d Tr

= 0,and v7 = ( (6)

BTAB. Austin, “Factors Influencing Thermal Conductivity of
Nonmetallic Materials, pp. 3-67 in Symposium on Thermal
naletias Materials, American Society for Testing Materials
*hiladelphia, 1939. 123 pp.: Ceram. Abstr.. 20 [¢ 5. “or
(1941). Str 20 Bl to ey
* For a derivation of this equation, see R. S. C

: quation, .». Carslaw and >

Jaeger, Conduction of Heat in Solids, Oxford, 1947. 1.

0.001
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200

TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 1. Thermal conductivity of one firebrick measured by several in-
vestigators (after Nicholls, footnote 2).

and equations (1) and (2) may be employed for direct measure-
ment of the thermal conductivity.

(2) Radiation

When heat is transferred between two surfaces. one at
Ty and the other at 7, by radiation, the amount of heat trans-
ferred per unit area of surface in a unit time is

q == C(7y* —— Ts4) (7)
C = a constant, dependent on effective emissivity and geometri-

cal shape of surfaces.
I'he temperatures are on the absolute scale.

: This formula has been derived from theoretical considera-
tions and thoroughly tested experimentally.

If an observer were to assume that he was measuring heat
transfer by a means which obeyed the law of conduction
(equation (2)) whereas the heat was really transferred by radia-
tion according to equation (7), he would conclude that the
conductivity of the materials increased as 7% This can be
seen if it is assumed that 7, and I’, are near enough together
so that equation (7) can be written as G R

q¢ = 4CT3AT (8)
after factoring (7'' — 7,9) to (I) —-T1) (Th + 1) (124 TD)

hd Apres (Ty + T3) equal to 27 and (Ty: + T°)
St Ll he observer would deduce that £ =
the form of rating § . thot Some heat “leakage” I
introduce a term in 13 A te ey Speseament wo
function of temperatur 2 of ie ¢quation of conductivity as a

ature. This radiant transfer might be due

to transparency : .
: Cy of the material its : .
. ah al itself on ( AQ . . : 15
mn the me t rial. to Pe es or 11c lustons

Il.
2 Measurement of Thermal Conductivity
1ermal conductivity m
or dynamic methods,
1s varied suddenly or pe

ay be measured by either static
a dynamic methods the temperature
riodically for one portion of the sample

materials indicate that guard methods can be successfully
applied if the apparatus is carefully designed and measurements
are made with great care. However, errors introduced can
be considerable and have been considerable for much of the
material reported in the literature, as has been shown in a
comparative test by six independent investigators on the
same material (Fig. 1). These results have been summarized
by Nicholls? and Austin,! who concluded that the differences
reported are due to the methods, even though any one
method has fairly good reproducibility. To obtain satisfactory
guarding for absolute measurements, quite large samples are
required. This proposes a difficulty in the study of high-
purity essentially nonporous ceramic materials, since large
specimens may be difficult to fabricate to desired specifica-
tions.

A method of insuring correct heat flow without the use of
heat guards is to employ a specimen which completely sur-
rounds the heat source. This may consist of an infinite cylin-
der or slab, surrounding an infinite heat source, or it may con-
sist of a hollow sphere or spheroid. Shapes approximating an
infinite cylinder or slab are satisfactory, if only the center
section is employed (in a manner equivalent to heat guards),
but they are difficult to fabricate from pure ceramic materials
to specifications. A spherical shape is satisfactory, but the
highly curved isothermals present a difficulty in temperature
measurement.

Loeb? has recently developed a general expression for the
body factor, B, in equation (2) for any shape where the sur-
faces can be described by a single parameter (» = constant)
in some orthogonal coordinate system and where the iso-
thermals are given by a single coordinate and the lines of
flow by the orthogonal coordinates. This expression 1S

As — A 1

 

B = (9)

dA

— dA
’ area GM
A = function expressing variation of temperature along coordi-

nate forming flow lines (between isothermals 1 and 2).

dA . . . : .
ll temperature gradient at some isothermal; integration 1s
dn :

over entire area of this isothermal.

This general expression can be integrated for the case of a
hollow ellipsoid (prolate spheroid) and makes possible the use

2 P. Nicholls, “Determination of Thermal Conductivity of
Refractories’ (report for American Society for Testing Materials,
Subcommittee C-8), Bull. Am. Ceram. Soc., 15 [2] 37-51 (1936).

3 A. L. Loeb, “Theory of Envelope Type of Thermal Conduc-
tivity Tests,” J. Appl. Phys., 22, 282-85 (1951).

terms in the lattice interactions will decrease A by coupling
together various vibrations of the lattice and will give a distri-
bution of frequencies corresponding to thermal equilibrium.
The value of A will depend on the magnitude of the anharmonic
vibrations and the wave amplitude.

It seems apparent that any factor which decreases the mean
free path of the thermoelastic waves will tend to lower the
thermal conductivity. Most of these factors have been con-
sidered by Eucken® and Austin.! The major factor affecting
the mean free path is expected to be the symmetry and order
of the crystalline lattice. Materials having a simple cubic
lattice are expected to give rise to fewer anharmonic vibra-
tions and to have a higher conductivity than more complex
crystalline forms. Glassy structures having a disordered
structure will be expected to have very low thermal conduc-
tivities.® As an illustration of this, consider the thermal con-
ductivities of quartz crystals” and quartz glass whose conduc-
tivities at — 190°C. are 0.075 and 0.0016 cal. per sec. °C.
cm., respectively. These values give a value of mean free
path of about 12 a.u. for the fused quartz and about 700 a.u.
for the crystalline material.® Similarly, crystals having ap-
proximately the same size atomic weight components will in
general be expected to have higher conductivities than crys-
tals having components with a pronounced difference in
atomic weight. Eucken observed a maxima in conductivity
for the alkali halides which had approximately equal atomic
weights.5® Predictions based on this criterion must be ac-

+ P. Debye, Vortrage iiber die kinetische Theorie der Materie
und Elektrizitit, p. 46; Gottinger Wolfskehlvortrage. B. G.
Teubner, Leipzig and Berlin, 1914.

5 (a) A. Eucken, “Wirmeleitfahigkeit von Nichtmetallen und
Metallen”’ (Thermal Conductivity of Nonmetals and Metals) in
Quanten-Theorie und Chemie, Leipziger Vortrage, 1928. Ed. H.
Falkenbagen, Leipzig, 1928.

(b) A. Eucken and E. Kuhn, “Neuer Messungen der Wiarme-
leitfihigkeit fester kristallisierter Stoffe bei 0 und —190°C.”
(New Measurements of Thermal Conductivity of Solid Crystal-
line Substances at 0° and —190°C.), Z. physik. Chem., 134, 193-
219 (1928).

(¢) A. Eucken, ‘“Wirmeleitfihigkeit keramischer feuerfester
Stoffe: Berechnung aus der Wirmeleitfihigkeit der Bestandteile”
(Thermal Conductivity of Ceramic Refractory Materials; Cal
culation from Thermal Conductivity of Constituents), Forsch.
Gebiete Ingenieurw., B3, Forschungsheft No. 353, 16 pp. (1932);
Ceram. Abstr., 11 [11] 576 (1932); 12 [6] 231 (1933).

6 C. Kittel, “Interpretation of Thermal Conductivity of
Glasses,” Phys. Rev., 75 [6] 972-74 (1949); Ceram. Abstr., 1950,
January, p. 15a.

7 W. J. de Haas and Th. Biermasz, “Thermal Conductivity of
Potassium Bromide, Potassium Chloride, and Silica at Low
Temperatures,” Physica, 4, 752-56 (1937) (in English).


AA ararly

v

y
r 39 pare at} h

) a ey

hell a LS ’

pled aL o~

Arts a atari ee

| PAA Salar A]
J

 

70 Journal of The American

0.025

m.)

wv
_ 0.020

-2 -
cm. °C

sec.

0.015

0.010

0.005

THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY (cal.

0.000. = = 25 20 150

KCl MOL PERCENT KBr

Fig. 2. Thermal conductivity of KCI-KBr solid solutions (after
Eucken and Kuhn, footnote 5 (b)).

cepted, however, with caution. For instance, the empirical
conclusion was reached “that the conductivity of beryllia
is probably close to that of magnesia,”’* whereas it has been
experimentally observed that the conductivity of BeO is
four or five times that of MgO.®

Other relationships have been developed between thermal
conductivity and the compressibility (or elasticity) and den-
sity or related qualities such as hardness. These depend on
the relation between the wave velocity, which is related to
the quantities concerned, and the conductivity as shown in
equation (10). For groups of compounds having the same
order of magnitude of mean free path (such as a group of
glasses and a group of halides), these relations appear to hold
qualitatively. The difficulty in testing them is that a compara-
tively wide divergence of values has been reported for the
conductivity of any pure material. For instance, the ther-
mal conductivity of aluminum oxide has been reported in the

literature as having values of about 0.01, 0.025 0.03,"
0.03," and 0.065" at 100°C., and this range of values is not

unusual. A major part of this difficulty has been the appar-
ent reluctance of most investigators to prepare samples of
high purity and low porosity for measurement: most values

* See p. 10 of footnote 1.

* W. A. Scholes, “Thermal Conductivity of Bodies of High
BeO Content,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 [4] 111-17 (1950).

“(a) W. M. Thornton, “Relation Between Thermal Conduc-
tivity and Elasticity,” Phil. Mag., [6] 38, 705 (1919).

(0) J. R. Clarke, “Thermal Conductivity of Some Solid Insula-
tors,” Phil. Mag., [6] 40, 502-504 (1920); abstracted in J. Am
Ceram. Soc., 4 [5] 422 (1921).

See also footnotes 1 and 5(b).

“W. J. Knapp, “Thermal Conductivity of Nonmetallic Single
Crystals,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 26 [2] 48-55 (1943).

1 G. Jaeger, W. Koehler, and F. Stapelfeldt, “Determination
of Thermal Conductivity of Oxide Ceramics,” Ber. deut. keram
Ges. uw. Ver. deut. Emailfachleute, 27 [5/6] 202-205 (1950)
Ceram. Abstr., 1951, February, p. 341. Et

2 Eugen Ryschkewitsch, Oxydkeramik der Einstoffsysteme
vom Standpunkt der Physikalischen Chemie (One Component
Oxide Ceramics on Basis of Physical Chemistry), p. 85. Springer-
Verlag, Berlin, 1948. 280 pp.; Ceram. Abstr., 1949, October, p
233g. Js

'3 J. L. Weeks and R. L. Seifert, “Note on Thermal Conduec-
tivity of Synthetic Sapphire,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 35 [1] 15
(1952).

Ceramic Society—Kingery and McQuarrie

Vol. 37, No. 9

0.0025

0.0020

(17/70hm cm.)

0.0015

0.0010

0.0005

ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY

go 20 40 60 80 100

VOLUME PERCENT PHENOL

Fig. 3. Electrical conductivity of phenol-KI solution
emulsions (after Eucken, footnote 5 (c)).

in the literature are values extrapolated from impure samples
or from highly porous samples.

Correlations of thermal conductivity with melting point,
or values at the melting point, and correlations with thermal
expansion are either unsatisfactory or misleading.

It seems clear that foreign atoms introduced into a struc-
ture, asin a solid solution, will disturb the thermal waves and
tend to decrease the conductivity. Apparently this effect
occurs in Cr-Al,O; cermets where the addition of metal and
consequent formation of a Cr.0;-Al,0; solid solution serves
to decrease the over-all conductivity below that of pure
AlO3.'" As far as the authors are aware, only one system
(KCI-KBr) of solid solutions of ionic materials has been
studied and this below room temperature only.5® In this
system the conductivity decreased rapidly with the addition
of foreign atoms, as is shown in Fig. 2. For the two
temperatures (0°C. and —190°C.) investigated for KCI-
KBr solid solutions the addition of impurity followed

Matthiessen's rule for the effect of impurities on resistivity,
1.e.,

Ru = R, + C (11)
Rn = resistivity of impure material = 1/k at temperature £.
R, = resistivity of pure material at temperature ¢.

C = a constant independent of temperature.

The importance of solid solutions would seem to justify fur-
ther work to define more closely the effects found and the re-
liability of Matthiessen's rule over a wider temperature range
and for other compositions.

The effect on conductivity of a mixture of crystalline ma-
terials 1S not clear from data reported in the literature.
Eucken and Kuhn®® found that the conductivity of a NaCl-
KCI mixture fell well below the conductivity of either com-
ponent. Geller et ql. reported that as much as 28.7 weight

11 A. R. Blackburn and T.

iE S. Shevlin, “Fundamental Study
and Equipment for Sintering f

Nyy ee and Testing of Cermet Bodies: V,
Fabrication, Testing, and Properties of 30 Chromium-70 Alu-
mina Cermets, J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 34 [11] 327-31 (1951).
eR. F. Geller, P. J. Yavorsky, ‘B. i
Breer dies of Binary and Ternary Combinations 0
conia in Rr ny Baria, Beryllia, Alumina, Thoria, and Zir-
Bi St elation to [heir Use as Porcelains,” J. Research Natl.
Sur. Standards, 36 [3] 277-319 (1946); RP 1703: Ceram. Abstr.
1946, September, p. 162.

.

I. Steierman, and A. S:

 

 

February 1954 (Part II) Thermal Conductivity, I 71
7/7
: . /
> Ek /4
5 2
a r
: ;
a
/
TEMPERATURE TEMPERATURE T
(s) DEBYE

 

(b) COMPTON

 

(c) ENDO

(d) PEIERLS

|
|

 

(e) PAPAPETRU

 

(1) MAKINSON

Fig. 4. Representation of variation of thermal conductivity and resistivity with temperature according to the

theories of various authors. The dotted lires indicate the form of a reciprocal relationship between conduc-

tivity and temperature or a linear relationship between resistivity and temperature.

Y% MgO could be added to BeO with no change in the rela-
tive conductivity from that of pure BeO.

A refractory body may be considered as a combination of
one or more solid phases and an air phase (pores). Equations
for the effect of porosity on thermal conductivity have beer
developed by Eucken®® and Russell'®; although different in
form they lead to essentially identical results—that the con-
ductivity will decrease almost linearly with the fraction pores
as long as the solid phase is the continuous phase (which may
be assumed for most ceramic bodies with the exception of in-
sulating brick), whereas a high curvature is to be expected
when the pores are continuous.

No complete data are available for the thermal conductiv-
ity of well-defined systems. The relations developed should
apply identically to electrical conductivity, however, and
have been found to hold very well for emulsions, as shown in
Fig. 3.

Data for a series of diaspore brick (from 30 to 709% po-
rosity) indicate a linear effect up to about 800°C., as do other
data in the literature. Data for temperatures above 800°C.
are not available, and no data are available for which the
thermal conductivity of the solid phase has been separately
measured. Extrapolated values for the diaspore series lead
to a reported value of £# = 0.007 cal. sec.” °C.7! em. ™?
em. at 300°C. for the conductivity of alumina, which
is low by a considerable factor. At higher temperatures
where radiant transfer may be expected to become important,
no data are available. A comprehensive review of the availa-
ble treatments of the effects of porosity has been given by
Austin.’

16 HH. W. Russell, “Principles of Heat Flow in Porous Insula-
tors.” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 18 [1] 1-5 (1935).

The effect of grain size on the conductivity of solid ceramic
materials has not been thoroughly investigated. Eucken
and Kuhn®® found a very definite decrease in conductivity
of marble compared with a single crystal of calcite, and re-
ported that the thermal resistance due to the grain boundaries
was constant at 0°C. and at .—190°C. Their results with
alkali halides were inconclusive, and no other data for ceramic
materials are known to be available. Several investigators
have found a large effect for the thermal resistance of metallic
grain boundaries.

V. Effect of Temperature on Thermal Conductivity

The variation of thermal conductivity with temperature is
known to be considerable for many materials; consequently
the temperature of measurement and of application must be
carefully specified. In general the results of various investi-
gators for any one material have shown much closer agree-
ment on the effect of temperature than on the absolute values
obtained (as 1s indicated in Fig. 1).

For crystalline materials, various theoretical treatments of
the effect of temperature on thermal conductivity have been
attempted. The first of these was presented by Debye in
1914.* The equation for conductivity being

R = — pco\ (10)

1 3 pc

167% (3a? + 1) xev' Ko 1

 

(12)

Ky = Boltzmann constant.

v = frequency of heat waves.

xp = compressibility at 0 °K.

a = ratio of x/p at T'°K. divided by x/p at 0°K.


\

+ Kingery and M cQuarrie Vol. 37, No. 2

Fr
y a ; bY
IRRITANTS

ial

-
Pos

=
Ire

xs
*
-
»
_

-~

. Wht
» WA
33

HIE

oS

Ine
y
\

3

5a

 

72

In equation 12) a relationship giving A as a function of

1/T has been substituted in equation (10). At temperatures
where the heat capacity 1s approximately constant the con-
ductivity varies inversely with temperature, but near the
absolute zero, where heat capacity varies at 1%, the conduc-
tivity increases as 1°. A maximum in conductivity should
occur at a temperature equal to 0.28 times the Debye tem-
perature.

Numerous other theoretical relationships have been de-
veloped of which those of Compton,” Endo," Peierls,"
Papapetru,® and Makinson?! should be mentioned. These
are summarized in Fig. 4 where the various theoretical rela-
tionships between thermal conductivity and temperature
are plotted. (It might be noted that none of these predicts
2 minimum in conductivity as has previously’ been sug-
gested.) For ceramic applications the major interest of these
relations is that all predict that conductivity should be directly
proportional to or almost proportional to 1/T above room
temperature. All reliable experimental evidence available
indicates that for pure crystalline materials the conductivity
can be represented by equations of the form

a ‘
k=xn+0 (13)

¢T + h (14)

or r= gg ; ft

y = thermal resistivity.
T = absolute temperature.
a, b,g, and h = experimentally determined constants.

This behavior can be regarded as the increase in wave ampli-
tude at higher temperatures, which leads to greater anhar-
monic interactions giving a lower value for A, the mean free
path of the heat waves. As shown by equation (10), this
leads to a lower value of conductivity.

The temperature dependency of the thermal conductivity
of glasses is somewhat different owing to the greatly reduced
value of the mean free path. For glasses the mean free path
may be considered as essentially constant, at least above room
temperature, and thermal conductivity increases in propor-
tion to the heat capacity.® This may be represented as an
almost linear increase with temperature over the range of in-
terest and can be expressed by a relation of the form

k=cl + d (15)

|

A
= TT (16)

A combination of crystalline material and glassy material
results in a temperature dependence of the form
1
Rnixture = ——— eC (17)
AT + B + T

Pmixture = AT +B ‘ (18)

This relation predicts the possibility of a maximum in con-
ductivity, and such a maximum has been observed for bonded
silicon carbide.’ It may be noted here that no maximum
in conductivity has been found for crystalline materials ex-

 

1” A. H. Compton, “Physical Study of Thermal Conductivi
of Solids,” Phys. Rev., 7, 341 (1916). nductivity
3Y., Endo, ‘Quantum Theory of Thermal Conductivity
Nonmetallic Crystals,” Science Repts., Tohoku Imp. Univ -
(1922). ¥ :
19 R. Peierls, “Zur kinetischen Theories der Wirmeleitung i
Kristallen” (Kinetic Theory of Heat Conduction in Crontote)
Ann. Physik, [5] 3, 1055-1101 (1929). Ra
20 Ach. Papapetru, “Warmeleitung in Kristallen’ (Heat C
duction in Crystals), Physik. Z., 35 [13] 527-28 Py Con
Abstr. 14 [1] 22 (1935). peren,

21 R. E. B. Makinson, “Thermal Conductivity of Metals.”
Proc. Cambridge Phil. Soc., 34, 474-97 (1938). E fetal,

: Journal of The American Ceramic Socuel)

0.014

0012

'e 0.010
oO

0.008
0.006
0.004

0.002

THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY (cal. sec.

0.000
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200

TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 5. Thermal conductivity of SiO, crystal-SiO, glass
mixtures. Percentage of glass is indicated for each
curve (after Eucken, footnote 5 (c)).

cept at temperatures close to the absolute zero.?” This max-
“mum has been ascribed to the mean free path of the heat
waves becoming of the same order of magnitude as the speci-
men diameter.2%* The change in conductivity and tempera-
ture dependence of conductivity for a glass-crystal body as
calculated by Eucken®® is shown in Fig. 5.

VI. Summary

(1) The laws of heat flow have been briefly considered.

(2) Measurement of thermal conductivity can be carried
out by either static or dynamic methods if suitable heat flow
is insured by thermal guarding or specimen design. Inade-
quate control of heat flow has led to many incorrect values
of thermal conductivity reported in the literature. A method
is available for determining absolute values of thermal con-
ductivity in small specimens by an envelope test.

(3) The crystalline nature and structure of ceramic ma-
terials strongly affect the thermal conductivity, simple lattices
leading to high values of conductivity. Relationships which
hold qualitatively are difficult to assess quantitatively be-
cause of the wide divergence in values reported for pure ma-
terials. This divergence may in considerable measure be
attributed to the paucity of measurements on specially pre-
pared high-purity samples.

(4) Impurities in a crystalline structure, a mixture of
ceramic materials, lattice imperfections, grain boundaries, and
porosity tend to decrease thermal conductivity. Satisfactory
quantitative experimental data are not available for most of
these factors, particularly at elevated temperatures.

(5) The temperature dependence of thermal conductivity
of crystalline and glassy materials has been thoroughly studied
Sg Theoretical expectations are in general agree-

all reliable experimental data available.

22 Ny » ld yr ’ . " .
Cris; Je Hass and Th. Biermasz, ‘Thermal Conductivity of
8H a oy Temperatures,” Physica, 5 [2] 320-24 (1938).

1. B. GG. Casimir, “Note X 1 at in Crystals,
Physica, S, 495 (1938). on Conduction of Heat in Crystals
AD shensive review of thermal conductivity theory and
ate h Al resulls at low temperatures has been published re-
at Xow Tem rman, 1 hermal Conductivity of Dielectric Solids
1953): C peratures,” Advances in Phys., 25] 103-40 (January

y» Ceram. Abstr., 1953, July, p. 129d.

’

Thermal Conductivity:

I. Development of a Thermal

Conductivity Expression for the Special Case
of Prolate Spheroids

by MILTON ADAMS and A. L. LOEB

A straightforward derivation of the heat-flow
equation for a prolate spheroid is given. In its
simplest form the expression is thermal conduc-
tivity equals body factor (determined for the
prolate spheroidal vessel) times power divided
by temperature drop. The geometry of the pro-
late spheroid is reflected in a detailed expression
for the body factor.

I. Introduction

N the envelope type of thermal conductivity tests only
the sphere and the spheroid readily permit exact mathe-
matical derivations of heat-flow equations. The equa-
tion for the case of the sphere is well known. For the special
case of the prolate spheroid the derivation is more complex;
however, an exact thermal conductivity expression can be
developed from the fundamental equation of heat conduction.
The apparatus contains a prolate spheroidal core so con-
structed that heat is generated uniformly per unit length along
the axis of rotation as required for uniform heat flow. The
ceramic specimen, whose thermal conductivity is to be de-
termined, is designed and shaped so that its inner and outer
surfaces are confocal with the surface of the core.

Il. Table of Symbols
The principal symbols employed in this paper are as fol-
lows: the corresponding c.g.s. units are also given.

Q = heat crossing surface per unit area per unit time (cal. per

sec. per sq. cm.).
B = thermal conductivity (cal. per sec. per °C. per sq. cm.
through a cm.).
v7 = temperature gradient.
AT = temperature drop (°C.).
T = temperature (°C.).
P = power (watts).
e = point of higher temperature.
f = point of lower temperature.
r = radial coordinate (cm.).
5 = axial coordinate (cm.).

a = semifocal length of spheroidal coordinates (cm.).
A = area (sq. cm.).
dA = a surface element of an isotherm.

dr = an element of a line of flow directed tangent to the line of
flow.

# = integration over a closed surface.

¢ = constant: equation of a prolate spheroid.

n = constant: equation of a hyperboloid of revolution of two
sheets.

B = body factor.

Ill. Derivation

It has been shown! that heat flows out of the core along
hyperbolas normal to the spheroidal surfaces. The surfaces
of equal temperature are called isotherms, and the hyperbolas
normal to them, lines of flow. The temperature gradient or
the rate of change of temperature with respect to the length
of the path along the lines of flow is written V1" (T' = tempera-
ture). If the gradient 1s taken in the direction of heat flow,
it 1s negative.

1 A. L. Loeb, “Theory of Envelope Type of Thermal Conduc-
tivity Tests,” J. Appl. Phys., 22, 282-85 (1951 ).

The fundamental equation of heat conduction states that
the amount of heat flowing per unit time across a unit area of
the isotherm is proportional at any point to the temperature
gradient at that point.

C= —hkvT. (1)

an isotherm.

= thermal conductivity of the material.
v1 = temperature gradient.
T = temperature.

_—
Q = amount of heat per unit time per unit area flowing across
k

—

Q is a vector quantity tangent to the lines of flow; where lines
of flow originate or terminate the vector quantity is said to
have respectively a positive or negative divergence; the diver-

i —
gence of (Q is indicated as V -Q.
Since there is no source of heat flow in the ceramic material,
and since no heat is absorbed by it, the divergence of Q is
Zero.

v-0=0 (2)

Two quantities are measured in the determination of ther-
mal conductivity: the power used in maintaining the core at
constant temperature, and the temperature drop between two
measured points in the specimen. The power is the total
amount of heat flowing in a unit time across any closed sur-
face about the core. If any isothermal surface is considered,

Sr

then the power is the integral of Q over an isotherm.
P = $QdA (3)
# = integration over a closed surface.
Q = magnitude of 0.
dA = a surface element of an isotherm.

As the gradient represents a rate of change with distance,
the drop in temperature between two points on a line of flow
is given by

I; — T. = AT = f;RT-@r (4)

ai . -
dr = an element of a line of flow directed tangent to line of flow.
¢ = point of higher temperature.

f = point of lower temperature.

Dividing equation (3) by equation (4) produces equation
(5):

Pl £00 ®

Az Sv T-dr

Substituting for VT" the expression given by equation (1) gives

 

 

=k 2d (6)
J Q-dr
f
J Qdr )
vil = -— JC - £2 (7)
$£0dA Al

. —
dr = magnitude of dr.


»
=

x

ot

Len
<r
AL

a

ia :
EeaTT: ¢

See
ASIC

2

 

=22
Tons

-
-

Sie
>
ERE

hy

Ste

 

 

CALA
; Frees > 557 =

To
=F

 

4 Journal of The Ameri

There remains the problem of solving equation (2) and
substituting the value of Q thus obtained in equation (7).
As indicated, prolate spheroidal coordinates are conveniently
used. These coordinates are defined relative to cylindrical

coordinates as follows:

= gq? (8)

 

oP 2a (9)
I~" 9

£ = constant: equation of a prolate spheroid.

n = constant: equation of a hyperboloid of revolution of two
sheets.

r=a(g — 1): (1 — 2)" (10)

z = afy (11)

¢ and n are dimensionless quantities somewhat analogous to
angles; a represents the semifocal length of the isotherms
and the flow surfaces. The isotherms are described in this
svstem by the equation § = constant. The lines of flow lie
‘1 the surfaces described by the equation n = constant.
Equation (2) is a first-degree differential equation; its
solution involves a single integration, hence one arbitrary

constant. Its solution in prolate spheroidal coordinates is

constant
= 12
C=FE-—10%E-m" (12)

Along an isotherm § = constant, Q is seen to depend on 7.
Although the temperature is constant in an isotherm, the
amount of heat per unit area flowing across an isotherm varies
along the isotherm. Isotherms crowd together where they
are strongly curved; here the temperature gradient 1s largest,
and the amount of heat flowing across per unit area is also
greatest.

The element of area dA of an isotherm is given in prolate
spheroidal coordinates by

dA = 2maX(§ — 1)"/x(8 — n*)"/2dn (13)
A line element of the lines of flow is given by

_ le =)
dr = a (g = 1)/z dt (14)

Substituting equations (12), (13), and (14) into equation (7)
gives

Thermal Conductivity:

can Ceramic Society—A dams

= EE

Vol. 37, No. 2

dE
fi=5s
af, £2 — 1 P
k=— gafdn AT 08

n varies from —1 10 +1 over an entire isotherm, hence,
Fdn = 2 (16)

The numerator of equation (15) should be integrated between
the two points where the temperature 1S measured.

 

 

 

dE E—1|f ¥
f ay Yeln 5 | (17)
In ! P
Ie
hi== =" 2] (18)

The measurements of temperature are usually made on the
minor axis of the prolate spheroid; here n = 0, hence from

equation (10)

 

r= afgt — 1) (19)
2\1/a
nE= (a? ! ) (20)

Substituting equation (20) into equation (18) gives

| (a+ re —e (C+ r)n TF]
R= — ? | +r)r+a (a+ r)/2—al P

8a AT
(21)

r. = distance of point e¢ from major axis of prolate spheroid.
ro = distance of point f from major axis of prolate spheroid.

 

In | & +r —a (@+r)/ +a
(a* + rr +a (a+ rd) FLT
8ra
body factor for a prolate spheroidal apparatus. Equation
(21) can be expressed as follows: Thermal conductivity
equals body factor times power divided by temperature drop.

P
= — — 2
k B AT (22)

The term is the

B = body factor.

ll, Prolate Spheroidal

Envelope Method

Data for Al.Os, BeO, MgO, ThO;, and ZrO,

by MILTON ADAMS

An absolute method of determining the thermal
conductivity of refractory materials is described.
This investigation confines itself to the steady
state, i.e., where the temperature at any given
point in the material is independent of time. The
variation of conductivity with temperature is
shown for alumina, magnesia, zirconia, beryllia
thoria, and insulating firebrick B & W K-28. The
results of previous studies are compared with
those of this investigation.

I. Introduction

Ag expression for the flow of heat by conduction
1s rate equals driving force divided by resistance. In
this fundamental expression the rate is. of course, the
rate of heat flow; the driving force is the temperature drop
across the material, since an inequality of temperature is
necessary for heat flow; and the resistance term embraces
the factors of surface area and heat-flow path length, and also

ir s the ionali
cludes the proportionality factor k, which denotes the ther-
mal conductivity,

February 1954 (Part II)

This investigation concerns itself with the conduction of
heat, and confines itself to the steady state, i.e., where the
temperature at any given point in the material is independent
of time. Thus, the temperature gradient and heat-flow rate
are also independent of time.

The purpose of this research was to devise an absolute
method of determining the thermal conductivities of pure re-
fractory oxides. When one considers the need of stable re-
fractory materials of construction for piles, gas turbines, and
other high-temperature devices, the importance of a knowl-
edge of the thermal conductivities of the pure oxide refrac-
tories becomes self-evident.

Of the four usual test-specimen shapes employed in the de-
termination of thermal conductivity, only the hollow sphere
readily permits unidirectional heat flow. The other three
(plate, rod, and hollow cylinder) require some sort of guarding
to insure unidirectional heat flow. To eliminate experimental
limitations of temperature measurement and heater-element
construction with the hollow sphere, a hollow prolate sphe-
roid was used for this work. To insure unidirectional heat
flow, the heater element or core must be so constructed as to
generate heat uniformly per unit length along the axis of ro-
tation, and the specimen must be so designed and shaped that
its inner and outer surfaces are confocal with the surface of
the core.

Loeb! has developed a general expression for the thermal
conductivity of any specimen whose isothermals can be de-
scribed by one coordinate of some orthogonal coordinate sys-
tem, the lines of flow being described by one of the other or-
thogonal coordinates. The special applications of this gen-
eral equation to plates, cylinders, spheres, and ellipsoids are
oiven, with special emphasis on the case of prolate spheroids.

The general thermal conductivity equation can be ex-
pressed as thermal conductivity equals body factor times power
divided by temperature drop. In this expression thermal
conductivity is in c.g.s. units of calories per second, per
square centimeter, per degree centigrade drop through a cen-
timeter: the body factor is a constant for a specific specimen
including surface area and heat-flow path-length considera-
tions in addition to a conversion factor of watts to calories
per second; the power is in watts; and the temperature drop
is in degrees centigrade. The thermal conductivity expres-
sion for prolate spheroids derived from the fundamental equa-
tion of heat conduction was given as equations (21) and (22)
in Part IT of this series (see opposite page).

II. Previous Investigations

An extensive search of the literature reveals that few data
have been published on the thermal conductivity of pure re-
fractory oxides. Most investigations have been conducted
on commercial-type refractories. Usually investigators did
not define their samples adequately as to porosity, chemical
composition, or structure. A large number of the tests were
based on some linear-flow method or comparative method.
Some used radial flow in a cylinder. A few employed
radial flow in a sphere, which is an envelope type of test.
The unit designed for this investigation is also of the envelope
type. The wide divergence of absolute values may be due to
the nonmaintenance of the theoretical heat-flow pattern em-
ploved mn the conductivity calculations. Reasonable agree-
ment exists on relative values.

Thermal conductivity may be determined under steady-
state conditions or under unsteady-state conditions. Where
steadv-state conditions exist, the heat-flow rate is constant or
independent of time. Therefore, the temperature gradient
and the temperature within the material at any given point

1 A. L. Loeb, “Theory of Envelope Type of Thermal Conduc-
tivity Tests,” J. Appl. Phys. 22, 282-85 (1951).

Thermal Conductivity, [11 75

are independent of time. In this case, the heat-transfer
rate depends primarily on that property of the material which
is defined as thermal conductivity. The present study is
limited to the steady state. Where unsteady-state conditions
prevail, the rate of heat flow is changing with time as are the
temperature gradient and temperature. Here, the heat-
transfer rate depends on that property of the material known
as the thermal diffusivity. It is the ratio of the thermal con-
ductivity of the material to the product of the density and
specific heat of the material.

(1) Unsteady State

Gerdien? reports conductivity values for alumina obtained
by Jakob and Hahnlein by a comparative diffusivity method.
Their standard was ‘‘Marquardtmasse’’ (Marquardt porce-
lain). Crucible specimens filled with tin were used. The
standard crucible and the sample crucible were heated and
the time required to melt the tin in each crucible was noted.
Values obtained range from 0.0466 at room temperature to
0.0127 at 900°C. These values are in c.g.s. units, as are all
conductivity values that appear in this paper.

Fitzsimmons? has determined the thermal diffusivity of
some refractory oxides in the range 400° to 750°C. In
his method he subjected a preheated specimen (long solid
cylinder) to a sudden change by immersion in a stirred lead
bath and noted the change of temperature with time at the
center of the specimen. His values of diffusivity in square
centimeters per second are: for alumina, 0.023 at 400°C. to
0.015 at 700°C.: for magnesia, 0.032 at 400°C. to 0.020 at
750°C. and for zirconia, 0.0060 at 400°C. to 0.0053 at 750°C.
He has made the assumption that the surface temperature of
the specimen changes instantaneously. This would lead to
increasing deviations from absolute values for increasing
conductivities.

(2) Steady State

Scholes has obtained low-temperature values for beryllia
with an apparatus similar to that of Knapp's.” His standard
was soft copper. His values for beryllia are 0.417 at 53°C. to
0.328 at 134°C. He placed his thermocouples in the stand-
ard and extrapolated to determine the temperature drop in
the sample. This was a possible source of error.

Whittemore® gives values determined by G. B. Wilkes of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in an apparatus
similar to that described in A.S.T.M. Designation C 201-47.
The relative conductivity values of three refractory oxides are
magnesia 18, alumina 17, and stabilized zirconia 6 at about
1100°C. These measurements were made on commercial-
type refractory oxides of much higher porosity than those
prepared in this laboratory.

(3) Other

Eucken? has determined the thermal conductivity of mag-
nesia and alumina from commercial-type brick. He has
devised equations relating porosity, glassy-phase composition,

2 H. Gerdien, ‘“‘Aluminiumoxyd als hochfeuerfester Werk-
stoff’” (Aluminum Oxide as a Highly Refractory Material), Z.
Elektrochem., 39 [1] 13-20 (1933).

3 EB. S. Fitzsimmons, ‘Thermal Diffusivity of Refractory
Oxides,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 [11] 327-32 (1950).

+ W. A. Scholes, “Thermal Conductivity of Bodies of High BeO
Content,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 [4] 111-17 (1950).

5s W. J. Knapp, “Thermal Conductivity of Nonmetallic Single
Crystals,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 26 [2] 48-55 (1943).

6 O. J. Whittemore, Jr., “Properties and Uses of Pure Oxide
Heavy Refractories,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 32 [2] 48-53 (1949).

7 A. Eucken, ‘“Wirmeleitfihigkeit keramischer feuerfester
Stoffe: Berechnung aus der Wirmeleitfihigkeit der Bestand-
teile”’ (Thermal Conductivity of Ceramic Refractory Materials;
Calculation from Thermal Conductivity of Constituents),
Forsch. Gebiete Ingenieurw., B3, Forschungsheft No. 353, 16
pp. (1932); Ceram. Abstr. 11 [11] 576 (1932); 12 [6] 231 (1933).


¢ Society—Adams Vol. 37, No. 2

76 Journal of The American Ceram February 1954 (Part II) Thermal Conductivity, 111 7

and thermal conduction. By calculation and prediction he
obtained for magnesia 0.1 at 0°C. to 0.014 at 1100°C. For
alumina the values decrease from 0.025 at 0°C. to 0.010 at
1100°C. He assumed the crystals to be spherical, and made
other assumptions regarding physical and crystallographic
constitution. Fine, hairlike cracks or pores inl the alumina
sample may account for the relatively low values obtained
for alumina.

No reference to a spheroidal type of apparatus such as used
for this study was discovered in the literature. Only refer-
ences to the spherical units previously mentioned were en-
countered. Hering® has suggested hemispherical caps as
heat guards for the cylindrical method.

POWER SUPPLY

 

VOLTAGE mm HE
STABILIZING VARIAC WATTMETER
TRANSFORMER

& | |

Pc remem

titanyl 1-14

1 8
hs

Lad Ad COLD JUNCTIONS

Ah lai |
“sii bald add

lll. Table of Symbols

In addition to the table of symbols presented in Part II of
this series (p. 73), the following symbols and corresponding
units are employed in this paper.

 

o = thermal diffusivity (sq. cm. per sec. = k/cp). (1)
¢ = specific heat (cal. per gm. per °C.)

p = density (gm. per cc.).

g = rate of heat transfer (cal. per sec.).

L = length of cylinder (cm.).

=
ay d 0
standard per cent deviation = 100 § ———— TT (2)

Fig. 2. Alumina specimen and heating unit (platinum-wound core). —
STANDARD
BATTERY CELL

 

S = a; SAMPLE”
b = value.

d = value from curve.

n = number of values. = Fig. 1. Photograph of mold for specimen.

Ss = standard per cent error of mean = S/N m. (3) L BN TYPE R=) RUBICON

     
   

m = number of run or observation.
r, = radial distance to inner thermocouple in cylinder (cm.).
r, = radial distance to outer thermocouple in cylinder (cm.).

POTENTIOMETER

  
 

HEATING CORE
CERAMIC SPECIMEN

GALVANOMETER

  

It was soon discovered that the hemispherical guards did
not eliminate nonradial flow entirely.! This distorted heat
flow was also revealed by the distorted discoloration markings
noticed in the insulating cover upon disassembly. It was then
decided to resort to the prolate spheroid where there are no
discontinuities in the curvature of the surface. The values
obtained with the cylindrical apparatus were then shown to
be very low as expected.

imi Fig. 4. ic di f .
IV. Preliminary Work ig Schematic diagram of complete apparatus

As a preliminary step in this investigation, it was decided

a A a to try hemispherical caps as heat guards for a cylindrical
ATA Hp : 1
bh Le A ls

Aas ARTA specimen, as suggested by Hering® The caps and cylinder

were slip cast from a suspension of finely dry-ground alumina.
The cvlinder was cast with two lengthwise thermocouple
holes. These holes were made by employing rods of stainless
steel 0.022 in. in diameter. The holes were located about 1
mm. from the inner and outer surfaces respectively. The

of 3.66 to 3.69 gm. per cc. One magnesia specimen was hy-
Sechmen was fi a tot: sitv 2 00%. or : : V. Apparatus and ; B Ds : 0%
specimen was fired to a total porosity of 13.00% or a bulk PP Procedure drostatically pressed at 30,000 Ib. per sq. in. after slip casting.
density of 3.48 gm. per cc. The cylinder was about 10 cm.

RAVER RG REE Se : : (1) Specimens Magnesia specimens were fired to a total porosity of 8.10 to
WEEE REL A : long and 4 cm. in diameter, with a wall thickness of 1 cm.

INSULATING FIREBRICK BAW K-28

Fig. 3. Cross section of specimen assembly.

re YE
—

i ———
i —— a i

 

 

F Tm i. . . . . . KR 9107 1 > > oq y IG " QQ OC a To 4
: The caps were of the same thickness and & : : The first step in making a specimen was the fabrication of 8.93% with a bulk density of 3.26 to 3.29 gm. per cc. For
le caps Were of the same tnckness.and appropriate size to sta : . zirconia the total porosity was 7.76 to 10.00%; the bulk den-
fit smoothly. a stainless steel template with the aid of an ellipsograph. A > Er pores} : : 4 (oF  thoria tl
A latinam-wound-unit was designed tof vio model was then made using the template. This model was sity was 5.22 to 5.35 gm. per cc. In the case of thoria the
A platinum-wound unit was designed to fit the inside of the : : : e : total porosity was 16.7% and the bulk density was 8.07 gm.
soechmen and: act as a heat Je YP 07 used as a pattern for the master or primary mold. From this 5 ; H/C : 3 NEL 5
specimen and act as a heating element. Pt-Pt-109, Rh . ; .r cc. The bervllia had a total porosity of 9.7% and a bulk
COTO 11a  enlats | mold the secondary or casting molds were constructed. The per.ec. € beryliia hac a total POrOMLY ON 0
thermocouples were used. An insulating cover was prepared ie yo asting constr 5 density of 2.7 gm. per ce. Hydrostatic pressing of the mag-
for the whole assembly from insulating rehvics Rabeock and 1 rer Ssignodras to remit ina bred Speeniey nesia seemed to have no appreciable effect on the porosity
Iilcox- K-28. The , ne whose axis was ¢ 2c , : a1 1 ADL DY € g BLY
Wilcox K-28. The power was turned on and the assembly Ww Se oor Qx15 We shout 2 an. and InHeT IIA jOR avs The heater core was slip cast from a suspension of finely
was allowed to reach thermal equilibrium. Power input and di ea. Fhe outer minor axis was about 4 cm. oround alumina. The alumina cores were fired to zero ap-
srmocouple potentials were measure and the outer major axis was of such length as to insure con- bo Si : : SER as
therm coped Is Ere measured. Ne focality betwee y Foc tiara gtha parent porosity. In this method the core 1s so wound with
The following equation was obtained by combining the Q i$ gon the two surfaces : platinum wire that equal amounts of heat are generated in
ate-of-heat transfer equations for a cvlinder and a s 5 opecimens were prepared by slip casti f spensions : Tine AR A
rate-of-heat transfer equations for a cylinder and a sphere: pret v slip casting from suspen equal lengths along the axis of rotation (see Fig. 2). This 1s

of finely ground material. Two piece plaster molds were used
q with carefully positioned 0.022-in. stainless steel rods for

i one of the requirements for uniform heat flow. There is one Fig. 5
SE L : 27.1, (4) Ts
FE yo, rar ] Or AT thermocouple holes. These holes were about 1 mm. from each
\F2/ 71

k 2 2 ade a Photograph of specimen assembly.
more requirement for uniform heat flow. This 1s satisfied by

 

(r: — nn) S RTE designing the shape of the specimen, whose thermal conduc-
gq = rate of heat transfer (cal. per sec.) er imme Gi pass oon tivity itis flesjred ko Mos: so that its finer and outer i
I. = length of cylinder (cm.). Rene conia, and thoria samples were bret ; |; Ye Sh Ce “ani faces are confocal with the surface of the core. Lhe Cross
ry == radial distance to inner thermocouple in cylinder (em.). Laboratory. * The iE ae He ie dl 11 ‘he MIT section of the Specimen assembly shown m Fig. 3 clearly : ; :
r. = radial distance to outer thermocouple in cylinder (cm). Metaluraeal Proect Labo 1ple Was prepare in ee demonstrates the confocality of all surfaces. Sd sembly, cold junction, potentiometer, and galvanometer. A

§ » aid of this equation : 06 : fired to 3 tot: I ; ¥ a oraton d Alyming SAID sh } Figure 3 also shows the position of the thermocouples within photograph of the specimen assembly is shown in Fig. 5.
With tpeaid of tits Squation znd measured data, conductivity al porosity of 6.35 te 7.11% with a bulk densi the specimen. The semifocal length a 1s also indicated.  Pt- The power supply is stabilized by means of a Raytheon
values were determined for alumina ranging from 0.0113 at —— : Pt-109, Rh thermocouples 0.010 in. in diameter are used. voltage stabilizer of 1000 watts which holds a constant output
HEC ee An insulating cover is employed. voltage of +!/2%. A General Radio Company Variac is
— DE JL. ats, Crm (2) Apparat dE
Technology, a Ee et ioro alley: Massachun is Institute 0 h pPar us i ui he ny : ype : precision Doter: EO mn meet

oo C. Hering, “Method for Determining Thermal Conductivi- t Beryllia specimens were SP Ty De I Schwatte of Figure 41s a schematic diagram of the complete apparatus with a u icon ga yanometer is employed in measuring the
ties,” Trans. Am. Electrochem. Soc., 18, 213-33 (1910). the Metallurgical Project, Massachusetts Institute of Tech showing voltage stabilizer, Variac, wattmeter, specimen as- thermocouple potentials.

nology.


0.024

0.004

     

  

|
400 600 800 1000

MEAN TEMPERATURE °C.

0 200

  
   
   
  

(3) Procedure

The specimen, heater core, thermocouples, and insulating
cover are assembled as shown in Figs. 3 to 5. Alundum ce-
ment is used to protect the platinum winding on the heater
core. The position of the thermocouple beads within the
specimen is checked by means of a radiograph. Radiographs
are also used to locate flaws within specimens, and to insure
correct positioning of the core within the specimen.

The potential differences across thermocouples are measured
with the potentiometer after the specimen has attained ther-
mal equilibrium. A Weston Model 310 wattmeter, Form 1,
is emploved in measuring the power input. The semifocal
length of the specimen is determined before it is assembled.
From the radiograph the thermocouple distances are obtained.
Ch A Equation (21) is employed to determine the thermal con-
bd CARE ductivity. Once the body factor which embraces the loga-
— ri rithmic term in equation (21) 1s calculated, it remains constant

es for a particular specimen. Only the power and temperature
& drop need be ascertained for further conductivity determina-
FF tions on that specimen.

AMAL Np Ra ele

VI. Results

Four different specimens and fifteen separate runs were
employed in making the alumina determinations of conductiv-
ity. The values range from 0.0225 at 500°C. to 0.0125 at
1300°C. A representative curve for an alumina specimen is
shown in Fig. 6.

The zirconia values were obtained from two specimens and
five runs. As this material becomes a noticeable conductor of
electricity above 800°C., very fine insulators were placed both
on the thermocouple leads and on the heater leads. This
permitted satisfactory determination of thermal conductivity
up to a temperature above 1300°C. The values are practically
linear from 0.004 at 100°C. to 0.005 at 1300°C. Values for a
zirconia sample are plotted in Fig. 6.

For the magnesia conductivity determinations three speci-
mens and six runs were used. No effect on the conductivity
values was noticed for the hydrostatically pressed sample.
Conductivity values for magnesia extend from 0.040 at 400°C.
to 0.014 at 1300°C. Figure 7 contains a typical curve for a
magnesia specimen.

 

78 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—Adams

 

 
   

1200

Fig. 6. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; and ZrO, vs. temperature.

Vol. 37, No. 2

Three specimens and three runs were employed
in the thoria determinations. The thermal con-
ductivity decreases from a value of 0.014 at
300°C. to a value of 0.005 at 1300°C. Values
for a thoria sample are included in Fig. 7.

The values for the beryllia specimen decrease
from 0.17 at 400°C. to 0.040 at 1200°C. The
curve for these values appears in Fig. 8. This
curve is extended to include some low-tempera-
ture values for beryllia previously reported
bv Scholes. Curves of magnesia, alumina,
thoria. and zirconia are also included in this
figure for comparison.

For the insulating firebrick B & W K-28
employed as a specimen cover in this investiga-
tion, the conductivity values increase from
0.00063 at 300°C. to 0.001 at 750°C.

VII. Discussion

(1) Comparison with Previous Investigations

The values for alumina obtained by Gerdien?

from Jakob and Hahnlein are from 15 to 25%

1400 lower than values obtained in the present inves-

tigation. There appears to be no apparent

reason for the difference. Eucken's’ values for

alumina are from 25 to 479% low. This is

probably due to the fine, hairlike cracks or

pores in his alumina sample. His values

for magnesia agree to within 3 to 7%, of those reported in this

study. This agreement is remarkable when it is remembered

that he arrived at his values by calculation and prediction

from his own equations relating porosity, glassy-phase com-

position, and thermal conduction for commercial-type brick.

Whittemore® has approximately the correct magnitude for

his relative conductivity values for magnesia, alumina, and

stabilized zirconia. Further comparison was not made as

his measurements were made by Wilkes on commercial-type

refractory oxides of much higher porosity than those employed
in the current investigation.

With the aid of equation (1) and specific-heat data from
Kelley,® the thermal diffusivity data of Fitzsimmons® can
readily be converted into thermal conductivity values. His
magnesia values are 15 to 329, low. The alumina values are
4 to 89 low. The zirconia values are in good agreement.
This order of deviation is to be expected since he has assumed
an infinite coefficient of heat transfer between the specimen
and its surroundings.

(2) Errors, Deviations, and Stabilization

Errors in power and temperature measurement are con-
siderably higher at the low end of the range of temperature
measurement where the drop is about 5°C. as compared with

the high end of the range where the drop is about 50°C.
Probable errors are as follows:

Low end High end
of range of range
P: Instrument +1.59 +0.3%
Stabilization +1.0 +1.0
AT: Potentiometer +4 0-8 0 +1.0-2.0
Thermocouple calibration +=2.0 +0.7
Maximum total instrument error +8.5-12.5 +3.0-4.0

9 : o r “i re ‘ ; ; E
Te K. K. Kelley, Data on 'heoretical Metallurgy: X., High
nburatire Heat Content, Heat-Capacity, and Entropy Data

norganic Compounds,” U/. S. B \Tines B No. 476,
241 pp. (1949) . Bur. Mines Bull.,

February 1954 (Part II)

0.040

0.036

0.032

0.028

0.012

0.008

 

0.004
200

   

400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
MEAN TEMPERATURE *C.

Fig. 7. Thermal conductivity of MgO and ThO, vs. temperature.

 

Deviations from the mean curve may be calculated by
means of equation (2). These have been determined for six
separate runs (66 values) with three magnesia samples. The
standard or mean deviation is 7.29, for the entire range. The
maximum deviation encountered was 13.89,. At the low
end of the range the deviations tend to increase.

‘{quation (3) may be used to estimate the standard error
of the mean value at any point. The relation to the number
of runs is as follows:

No. of runs Standard error of mean
7.2
2 5.1
3 4.2
4 3.6
5 3.2
6 2.9

On the basis of this, the mean curve of three separate runs
should give absolute values of thermal conductivities well
within +59, provided radiographs reveal no misalignment or
flaws.

The attainment and stabilization of thermal equilibrium is
generally realized within 2 hours. Sometimes equilibrium is
attained in about !/, hour. An investigation of the stabiliza-
tion of thermal conductivity over a long time period of days
reveals that it is very good at the low end of the range. At
the high end of the range the conductivity increases slightly
with time. This is due to the deterioration of the core wind-
ing at high temperatures.

Errors of misalignment of the thermocouple beads or heater
core and flaws in specimens are detected by means of radio-
graphs. Confocality errors are minimized by careful in-

Thermal Conductivity, ITT

79

0.450

0.400

0.350

® W.A SCHOLES

0.300

cm.)

Y. 0.250

cm

.c -1

, 0.200 O THIS INVESTIGATION
400—1200 °C.

sec

kcal.

0.150

0.100

0.050

 

0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
MEAN TEMPERATURE °*C.

Fig. 8. Variation of thermal conductivity with temperature (BeO, MgO,
Al, Oj, ThO,, and ZrO,). (Scholes data, footnote 4.)

spection and measurement of samples. Incorrectly shaped
specimens are rejected.

VIII. Conclusions

(1) An apparatus and method for determining the ab-
solute thermal conductivities of refractory materials in the
low and intermediate temperature ranges have been described.
The envelope type of test is employed with a prolate spheroi-
dal specimen.

(2) Alumina thermal conductivity decreases from 0.0225
at 500°C. to 0.0125 at 1300°C.; magnesia decreases from
0.040 at 400°C. to 0.014 at 1300°C.; zirconia is practically
linear from 0.004 at 100°C. to 0.005 at 1300°C.: thoria de-
creases from 0.014 at 300°C. to a value of 0.005 at 1300°C.:
beryllia decreases from 0.17 at 400°C. to 0.040 at 1200°C.;
and insulating firebrick B & W K-28 increases from 0.00063
at 300°C. to 0.001 at 750°C.

(3) Two conditions must be met to insure unidirectional
heat flow: (a) the heater core must be so constructed as to
generate heat uniformly per unit length along the axis of ro-
tation; (b) the specimen must be so designed and shaped that
its inner and outer surfaces are confocal with the surface of
the core.

(4) The standard per cent error of the mean is 4.2 for
three runs. Since three or more runs have been made in
these conductivity determinations, it is believed that the
values obtained are well within 4-59, of the absolute values
of thermal conductivity.

(5) If suitable high-temperature thermocouples and
heater windings become available, the temperature range of
this method can be extended.


¢ = February 1954 (Part 11) Thermal Conductivity, IV 81
. wvitve \ A a ratus for De ermining Table I. Typical Data for Thermal Conductivit
. : y
Thermal Conductivity , APP eve Metod fs \Data for The
C d . b a Co m pa rd ; Pb samplet MgO samplet
T h Se rm a Oo Nn U ctivity Y Terma. Temp. a = Temp.
couples (°C.) Als Aly Ali (°C.) Als Alg Ali
Data for Pb, Al20s, BeO, and MgO ht 228 221.7
13.8 14.6
by J. FRANCL and W. D. KINGERY T; 198.5 75 207.1 bn
T; 195.2 203.8 Ee
; 8.3 9.1
Apparatus for determining thermal conductivity Sn aie T, 186.9 5d 194.7 Ey
by a comparative method of steady-state ‘heat VERTICAL GUIDE ) Ts 184.1 2 191.8 i
flow through 1-in. cube samples is described. 5) Choa 10.6
Suitable precautions insure linear heat flow T : 1 72.0 ; 181.2 |
and low heat losses. Measurements with melting- 2 T 213 0. ga 0 0.3
point lead give values in good agreement with INSERT PLATE Ls 90.2 9.8 205.3 0.4
previous data. Measurements for dense Al:O;, To 171.9 0.3 181.6 —0. 4

 

 

BeO, and MgO indicate a conductivity which de-

creases with temperature from values at 100°C.

of 0.50 cal. per sec. ! per °C.” ! per cm.” * per

cm. for BeO, 0.081 for MgO, and 0.067 for Al.O;.

Values obtained are somewhat higher than most
of those previously reported.

: See Fig. 2 for thermocouple locations.
T Al, = temperature drop in sample; Af, = temperature dif-
ference between samples and guard cylinder; Af; = temperature

ALUMINUM TUBE difference across interface (including 2 mm. of samples).

WIRE ROPE

ree
£4.<

Crary
ng
F

SHA

A

ve
25s
Lg

bs
»
.

.

 

I. Introduction

HE importance of thermal conductivity measurements
T for ceramic materials is undisputed. However, there

has been considerable difficulty in the past in employing
or analyzing published data owing to wide variations in re-
ported values and to the small number of determinations for
well-defined systems (see Part I of this series). Absolute
methods of measurement require a precise measurement of
both heat input to the system and the path of heat flow.
Although measurements controlling both these variables are
satisfactory (see Parts I and III and footnote 1), they require
in general elaborate methods of heating and guarding, quite
large specimens, and in some cases specimens which are
formed only with difficulty. In contrast, the comparative
method employs a material of known thermal conductivity to
measure the heat flow, and can employ simple shapes of
relatively small size with good results.

The principle of the comparative method is simple. A uni-
form heat flow is established through two or more samples.
The temperature drop, heat flow, and thermal conductivity
are related by the equations ;

= hdidh  kdsdl | kdl

¢ al, A a a te (1)
A Al Al, As A 3 “
ka == Rk - ei fe = ky "iice ly . Al: (2)
A. AL Al As Ata Al =
g = heat flow.
k = thermal conductivity.
A = mean area.
Al = temperature decrease.
Al = thermocouple separation.

[f the conductivity of one sample, £,, is known, the thermal
conductivity of the other, k., can be determined. The heat
flow through all the samples must be maintained constant and
equal for satisfactory results. Deviations from this condition
are the major cause of difficulty in experimental measure-
ments.

In equipment employing linear flow through a series of
samples, errors can occur mainly by lateral heat flow and in-
terfacial resistance between samples. Lateral heat flow re-

'G. B. Wilkes, Heat Insulation. John Wiley & <
New York, 1950. 224 pp.;: Ceram. a ong Sous, Ine,

O90 |
23 1H.

November, p.

TRANSITE i

ALUMINA WN

wee ~ Siz

   
    
    
  

» ra;
ON

       
   
   

    
 

     

LYN 3
STAINLESS |B 3 y
| RY 0
STEEL SHELL SY = x
JE
NA z z
EES @ 3
Y///) K:20; ay
Z
<

Ol 2-34

=

SCALE IN INCHES

TRANSITE

 

Fig. 1. Cross section of thermal conductivity apparatus.

sults in an unequal heat flow through the standard and un-
known sample since some of the heat entering the first sample
In 1ts path does not reach subsequent samples. Lateral flow
can be reduced by large samples, suitable insulation, and
guard methods. Interfacial resistance may cause a nonuni-
formity of temperature distribution, complicates the guarding
against lateral flow, and adds thermal resistance which has
generally been included with that of the sample, giving er-
roncous results. This occurs since thermocouples have gen-
erally been embedded only in a metal standard near the in-
terface,! assuming that the interfacial resistance is negligible.
Interfacial resistance is reduced by forming smooth surfaces,
applying mechanical pressure to insure wcod contact, intro:
Sa a film of plastic or liquid metal having high thermal
conductivity, and employing a material of high emissivity

to increase’ : Ss rf
> crease’ the radiant transfer across any remaining air film.
he last two :

taneously.

 

considerations may be difficult to apply simul-

SCALE IN INCHES

Fig. 2. Cross section of heaters and samples. §,,;, standard samples;

Ss, unknown sample; T,.jo, thermocouples (Pt—-Pt-10% Rh); Hoi, heater

(25 turns, 0.016-in. Kanthal); H.; heater (18 turns, 0.016-in. Kanthal);

Hy 5, heater (15 turns, 0.016-in. Kanthal); Hg, heater (11 turns, 0.016-in.
Kanthal).

Typical equipment for applying the comparative method
to metals is described by Van Dusen and Shelton.? Melting-
point lead was used as a primary standard and nickel as a
working standard. Standard and unknown were soldered
together and several thermocouples peened into the standard
and unknown. A separately heated guard cylinder of stain-
less steel was employed, and the space around the samples was
filled with diatomaceous earth as insulation. Temperatures
in the guard cylinder were checked at points in the same
plane as the points in the samples and adjusted to their tem-
perature +2.5°C.

Comparative flow apparatus for ceramic samples has been
described by Knapp? and by Scholes.* Knapp employed 1-
cm. cube specimens and a stainless steel standard. Tin foil
placed between standard and specimen improved thermal
contact. Thermocouples were placed only in the stainless
steel standard and the temperature drop in the sample was de-
termined by extrapolation. Interfacial resistance, unknown
and unmeasured, was included with the resistance of the
specimen. A stainless steel guard cylinder was employed
with temperature gradient equalized at the measuring points
corresponding to the standard. The guard temperature was
not equalized relative to the unknown sample itself. Under
the conditions of measurement, the interfacial temperature
drop, temperature uniformity, and heat-flow equality were
not rigorously established. The small sample size required
by Knapp for his work with available single crystals also
made the measurements difficult.

2M. S. Van Dusen and S. M. Shelton, “Apparatus for Meas-
uring Thermal Conductivity of Metals up to 600°C.,"" Bur.
Standards J. Research, 12 [4] 429-40 (1934); RP 668; Ceram.
Abstr., 13 [7] 192 (1934). ies |

SW. J. Knapp, “Thermal Conductivity of Nonmetallic
Single Crystals,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 26 [2] 48-55 (1943).

+ W. A. Scholes, “Thermal Conductivity of Bodies of High
BeO Content,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 [4] 111-17 (1950).

Scholes modified Knapp's general type of equipment by us-
ing somewhat larger specimens, disks !/, in. in diameter and
'/o in. thick, and employing copper standards. As in
Knapp’s equipment, thermocouples were placed only in the
standards and the temperature drop in the sample was deter-
mined by extrapolation. The sample was soft-soldered to
the standard and no heat guard was employed. The equip-
ment was checked with melting-point lead (see Fig. 6).

The present work consists in the design and construction of
a comparative flow apparatus suitable for precise work with
ceramic materials at temperatures from room temperature to
about 1000°C. Using this equipment, measurements of the
thermal conductivity of melting-point lead, Al,O;, MgO, and
BeO have been carried up to 600°C.

Il. Experimental Procedure and Results

The equipment evolved after consideration and testing of
several modifications is shown in Figs. | and 2. The unknown
sample (S,) is centered between two standard samples (.S; and
S3) of thermal conductivity similar to the unknown. All the
standards and samples are l-in. cubes, and all surfaces are
carefully lapped. Thermocouple holes (0.020 in. in diameter)
are formed in each standard and specimen cube for tempera-
ture measurement, eliminating any extrapolation. A thin
silver foil (0.001 in.) of high thermal conductivity is placed at
each interface. (For temperatures above 900°C., Pt 1s em-
ployed.) As shown in Fig. 1, mechanical pressure insuring
good contact is applied through an aluminum tube and com-
pressed spring held by a plate inserted in slots in the vertical
tube.

Thermocouples in the samples and standards were wedged
in place with ceramic wedges, and thermocouple holes were
located 1 to 3 mm. from the interfaces. Thermocouple leads
were brought out through insulated holes in the upper heater
and through the hollow aluminum tube. Using this system
the samples and thermocouples could be aligned and as-
sembled with the guard cylinder and insulation in the upper
position. Heaters were made in the laboratory from dense
Al,O;. The guard cylinder consisted of an Alundum tube
with five separate windings corresponding to each speci-
men and heater. Insulation around the guard cylinder aided
in reducing lateral flow. Thermocouples were located in the
guard cylinder opposite each interface. The entire guard
cvlinder and insulation could be raised and lowered
along guide rods. It was counterweighted for easy manip-
ulation. The space between the samples and guard cylinder


EERSTE iE

Vol. 37, No. 2

2 The American Ceramic Society—Francl and Kingery February 1954 (Part II)
82 Journal of

Thermal Conductivity, IV 83

0.700 0.10

THIS INVESTIGATION

  
   

 

 

0.080 0.030 VAN DUSEN, SHELTON
0.09 W.A SCHOLES
0.600 WEEKS, SEIFERT
B70 0.080 5
% 0.08
Qo
£ 0.500 -
Go &
g oN -—
X ; '
O80 _ 0.070 } 'e S 007
£ © “
- © °
5 o Ts 3
o ‘ © 0.400 S
} CE . -
' 1 0.06
7 0.050 & 0080 o
ts . w
® '§ 3 0.300
$ “ = 0.05
» = 050 0 : 100 200 300
3 0.040 8 0 TEMPERATURE (°C)
— ~
-
Fig. 6. Thermal conductivity of melting-point lead.
0.200
£2 0.030 0.040
HAI interfacial resistances become of more importance. A similar
A result is found for MgO and BeO.
ar . ~ . .
(fifi fy Se 0:lco. 100 200 300 200 500 600 The low values previously found for these materials can in
pl HE : : : : ; a
Fi ih 0.020 TEMPERATURE (°C) large measure be attributed to the assumption ol negligible
RARER HAA interfacial resistance in most previous work. The thermal
Fig. 5. Thermal conductivity of BeO. conductivity of Al;03 and MgO at room temperature is of the
0.020 same order of magnitude as the many conductors among

     

 

0.010
0

   

|
100 200 300 400 500 600
MEAN TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 3. Thermal conductivity of Al,O;.

was filled with shaped insulating brick to prevent convection
heat losses.

Sample preparation requires some care for satisfactory
results. The lead cube used was cut and machined from a
bar of melting-point lead supplied by the National Bureau of
Standards (sample No. 49C). The thermocouple holes were
drilled at very low speed and pressure with continuous re-
moval of chips. Al:O; BeO,* and MgO were slip cast from
suspensions of finely ground material (see Part III, p. 76).
Thermocouple holes were formed by casting around stainless
steel rods 0.022 in. in diameter. After an initial set was ob-
tained the metal rods were removed. Oxide materials were
fired to zero apparent porosity. Bulk densities of oxides em-
ployed were 2.86 gm. per cc. for BeO, 3.48 for MgO, and 3.79
for Al,Oz. Samples of other ceramic materials have also
been prepared by this method, and other materials have been
prepared by machining and drilling thermocouple holes.

The determination of thermal conductivity requires the as-
sembly of standards and samples and the adjustment of
heaters te give satisfactory heat flow and temperature distri-
bution. Samples with wedged thermocouples and heaters
are assembled and aligned, and pressure is applied to hold
them in place with the outer guard cylinder in the upper posi-
tion. Then the guard cylinder is lowered and the temperature
of the furnace raised to about 900°C. to promote the plastic
flow and adhesion of the silver foil. The heater windings H,
H,, and Hi are then set to give the approximate temperature
level desired. Subsequently, the guard heaters H,—H; are
adjusted separately to give the same temperature gradient in
the guard cylinder as occurs in the samples. These heaters
are adjusted until the thermocouples in the guard cylinder,

* The BeO specimens were supplied b |
> s $ y Bernard Schwartz of
the Metallurgical Project, Massachusetts Insti he
r Ao , - 11S .
es titute of Tech-

      

|
0 100 200 300 400 S00 600
MEAN TEWPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 4. Thermal conductivity of MgO.

T; — To, match the temperatures at corresponding points in
the specimen assembly (+ 1°C.). Initially, this trial-and-
error behavior was quite difficult, but after some experience
with the assembly the guard-cylinder temperature can be ad-
justed quite readily.

From measurements of both standard samples the thermal
conductivity of the unknown control specimen is calculated by
equations (1) and (2). Calculations with the two standards
agreed within +59. Dense Al,O;, the conductivity of which
has been determined by absolute methods (see Part 111, this
series), above 550° C. was used as a primary standard. Below
this temperature the conductivity of alumina was successively
determined from a standard at a higher temperature. T he
low temperature values of Al,O; were checked by comparison
with melting-point lead. The standards should have con-
ductivity of the same order of magnitude as the test specimen
for best results. Typical data obtained using Al,O; standards
are shown in Table I.
Wn Al:0s, MgO, Be(), and melting-point
a ri % Sa 3 to 6. I'he thermal conductivity of

2s 1510 ease from 0.077 cal. per sec. per °C.™"
per cm. = per cm. at 50°C. to 0.021 at 600°C. The thermal
conductivity of MgO decreases from 0.088 at 50°C. to 0.026
at 600°C. : The thermal conductivity of BeO decreases from
0.56 at 50°C. to 0.108 at 600°C. The thermal conductiv-

ity of melting-point lead varies from 0.083 at 50°C. to 0.077
at 225°C.

lll. Discussion of Results

oe hee gS her equipment 1s such that experi-
errs nave: oer! eliminated to as greal an extent a5
Jos en any more convenience than neces-
bind pr ea over previous designs of comparative
nr at ¢ materials consist mainly in specimen
permocouple location, and guard methods. The speci-

men size, a 1-in. cube,

1s larger than many previous invest-

gators have employed, but remains small enough so that
samples of ceramic materials can be formed or obtained with
relative ease. The increased size makes a suitable heat distri-
bution in the guard cylinder easier to obtain, makes assembly
more precise, makes temperature uniformity better, and de-
creases the effect of small errors in measurements of sample
dimensions.

Temperature measurement directly in the ceramic sample
eliminates the errors and assumptions connected with inter-
facial thermal resistance. This type of error can be found
in most equipment described in the literature. The addi-
tional difficulty of forming specimens with thermocouple
holes is well repaid by the increase in accuracy and reliability
obtained. The interfacial temperature drop is still impor-
tant, since a large drop at the interface makes perfect guard-
ing almost impossible.

Controlling the temperature of the guard cylinder to match
that of the samples within =1°C. by five separate heaters in-
sures that the lateral heat flow is less than 1 or 207 at most.
Here again the extra effort required for setting up and balanc-
ing the temperature equilibrium seems Lo be worth while.
Some estimate of the accuracy and precision obtained is evi-
denced by calculations from two separate standard samples.
The maximum difference which the authors have ever found
in values calculated from the two separate standards is 7%:
The normal variation observed is less than 3%.

The values shown for melting-point lead in Fig. 6 are from
2.7 to 3.29, greater than those reported by Van Dusen and
Shelton.? Values found by Scholes* are somewhat lower than
the values found in this investigation. A value reported by
Weeks and Seifert’ is in close agreement with the present
values and with those of Van Dusen and Shelton.

The values found for dense Al.Oj are appreciably higher
than those of all other investigators except Weeks and Seifert.”
The present value is about 39, higher than their value at
95°C. Values reported by Knapp,® Fitzsimmons,® Rysch-
kewitsch,” Jaeger et al.,® and Eucken? are lower than the pres-
ent values. In each of these cases there are serious doubts
as to the accuracies of their methods, particularly at the lower
temperatures where thermal conductivity of Al,O; is high and

metals. Previous investigators employing a comparative
method®* have assumed that interfacial resistance is negli-
gible. This is probably a satisfactory assumption for most
work with low-conductivity materials, e.g., glasses and com-
mercial multiphase brick. It is not satisfactory for high-
conductivity materials such as pure Al:Os;, MgO, and BeO.
Similarly, in developing relations for diffusivity or unsteady-
state methods, investigators have assumed that the inter-
facial resistance is negligible in most cases.®® This is prob-
ably satisfactory for low-conductivity materials, but not for
Al,O;, BeO, and MgO. The variation between previous
values of conductivity is directly related to the values found.
Fitzsimmons’ results? are 23% low for Al,Oz at £ = 0.030, 14%
low for Al.Os at # = 0.020, and in quite good agreement with
results found by another method for ZrO, at E = 0.005.
Similarly, but on a much less precise level, Jaeger et al.® re-
ported values about 89, of the true value for BeO at k =
0.55. about 509% of the true value for ALO; at k= 0.07,
about 25% of the true value for MgO at k = 0.08, and close
to the true value for ZrO, at k = 0.005.

IV. Conclusions
(1) Equipment has been described for measuring the
thermal conductivity of ceramic materials by a comparative
method. A separately heated guard cylinder, the use of two

 

5 J.L. Weeks and R. L. Seifert, ‘‘Note on Thermal Conductivity
of Synthetic Sapphire,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 35 [1] 15 (1952).

¢ £. S. Fitzsimmons, “Thermal Diffusivity of Refractory Ox-
ides.” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 33 [11] 327-32 (1950).

7 Eugen Ryschkewitsch, Oxydkeramik der Einstoffsysteme vom
Standpunkt der Physikalischen Chemie (One Component Oxide
Ceramics on Basis of Physical Chemistry). Springer-Verlag,
Berlin, 1948. 280 pp.; Ceram. Abstr., 1949, October, p. 233¢.

8 (3. Jaeger, W. Koehler, and F. Stapelfeldt, “Determination of
Thermal Conductivity of Oxide Ceramics,” Ber. deut. keram. Ges.
uw. Ver. deut. Emailfachleute, 27 [5/6] 202-205 (1950); Ceram.
Abstr., 1951, February, p. 341.

9 A FEucken, ‘‘Wirmeleitfihigkeit keramischer feuerfester
Stoffe: Berechnung aus der Wirmeleitfahigkeit der Bestand-
teile’’ (Thermal Conductivity of Ceramic Refractory Materials;
Calculation from Thermal Conductivity of Constituents),
Forsch. Gebiete Ingenieurw., B3, Forschungsheft No. 353, 16 pp.
(1932); Ceram. Abstr, 11 [11] 576 (1932); 12 [6] 231 (1933).


5S
Se
Wal 5
595

WV,
* a

2

»
4

ts
53

S50

:

»

x1

as
WAL
WARE. 20

sy
55
ray

 

standard samples, and thermocouple location in each specimen
lead to precise measurements.
(2) The thermal conductivity of melting-point lead varies
from 0.083 cal. sec.~! °C.~! em.~? cm. at 50°C. to 0.077 at
225°C.
(3) The thermal conductivity of Al.O; decreases from

A method of measuring the thermal conductivity
of refractory oxides at high temperatures is de-
scribed. Heat is generated inductively in a
metal susceptor inside a hollow specimen in the
shape of a prolate spheroid, the temperature of
which is measured at two points by means of an
optical pyrometer. The conductivities of alu-
mina, magnesia, and beryllia were measured be-
tween 1000° and 1800°C.

I. Introduction

Nn envelope type of thermal conductivity apparatus
A was chosen for testing refractory oxides at high tem-

peratures for two reasons. First, any guard method is

basically imperfect and usually it 1s impossible to determine
the extent of the error introduced by mmperfect guarding.
Second, the guard method requires a large amount of material,
and because of the scarcity of some of the refractory oxides, it
was desired to keep the test specimens as small as possible.
Another reason for keeping the specimens as small as possible
is the difficulty of forming large dense bodies from the pure
refractory oxides.
A specimen in the shape of a prolate spheroid was chosen in
preference to a sphere because it 1s desirable to read the tem-
perature in the specimen at a point where the isothermal sur-
faces are as flat as possible. This condition, together with
that for a minimum amount of material, indicated that the
prolate spheroid shape would be the best.
The specimen assembly is shown in Fig. 1. Heat is gen-
erated in the core and flows outward through the specimen
and the msulating housing (necessary to attain a high average
temperature in the specimen). The temperature is measured
at two 1sothermals in the specimen. The thermal conduc-
tivity (k) 1s calculated from the equation

P
k = B —; (
P = amount of heat generated in core.
AT = temperature difference between the two isotherms.

B = body factor.

The body factor for a prolate spheroid (see footnote 1 be-
low and Part II, this series, p. 73) is

"A. L. Loeb, “Theory of Envelope Type of Thermal C x
tivity Tests,” J. Appl. Phys. 22, 982-83 (1951 ), seal Conde.

84 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—McQuarrie

Vol. 37, No. 2

El

0.077 at 50°C. to 0.021 at 600°C.; for MgO, it decreases
from 0.088 at 50°C. to 0.026 at 600°C.; for BeO, it decreases
from 0.56 at 50°C. to 0.108 at 600°C.

(4) The values found are higher than most other ralues
reported in the literature. This 18 attributed mainly to the
neglecting of interfacial resistance by previous investigators,

Thermal Conductivity: V, High-Temperature Method
and Results for Alumina, Magnesia, and Beryllia

from 1000° to 1800°C.

by MALCOLM McQUARRIE

 

l Vite —c Vrttct+e
Bi= — "In ——— 7 ee (
Src V+ et+e Vite —c

¢ = semifocal length of spheroidal system.

r, = semiminor axis of outer isothermal surface.
r» = semiminor axis of inner isothermal surface.
(See Fig. 1.)

II. Experimental

In adapting the prolate spheroid envelope type of thermal
conductivity tester to high-temperature work, two basic
changes from the low-temperature method previously de-
veloped in this laboratory (see Part 111, this series) are made.
First, the heat is generated in the core by means of induction
heating.* Thus the heating core is made of solid molyb-
denum and because of the tendency for this material to oxi-
dize at high temperatures, the entire assembly must be
placed in a vacuum. Second, the temperature of the speci-
men is read with an optical pyrometer. This requires that
holes (tapered to provide a clear line of sight to the pyrometer)
be placed in the specimen and that metal cones be placed at
the bottom of these holes. These cones provide a black body
whose true temperature will be read by the pyrometer.

Since the body factor given by equation (2) above is for a
solid specimen, the introduction of holes into the specimen
changes the body factor, and a correction for this is experi-
mentally determined by comparing the results obtained on

The essentials of induction heating may be explained as fol-
low st If a high-frequency alternating current is passed through
Boot , i il set up an alternating magnetic field within the coil.
a conductor (called the susceptor) is placed in this alternating
THe fiietic field, it will have induced in it electric currents known
os Suey Surrents F'hese eddy currents circulating in the ma-
ria wi cause 1t to be heated by I2R losses. The lagging power
wei ’ the coil and susceptor is balanced by a condenser 11
pars th It so that the total load is at unity power factor.
} ox Jun Ie details on the principles and practice of induction
SEs ie reader 1S referred to the following references:
and A i ha Brown, C. N. Noyler, and R. A. Bierwirth, Theory
Application of Radio-Frequency Heating. D. Van Nostrand
°, Ine, New York, 1947. 370 Pp.
Gr: y i Curtis, High-Frequency Induction Heating. Mc
ig t 300k Co., Inc., New York, 1944. 235 pp.
Tn y Opty Ir, Principles and Theory of High-Fre-
y Heating and Induction Heating. American Society for
Metals, Cleveland, 1946. A
( I ”’ ’ r ee . .
i nan and J. W. Williamson, ‘Design of Induc-
! x oils for Cylindrical N agnetic ads,” Elec.
Eng., 64, 585 (1943). y cal Nonmagnetic Loads,
(e) N. R. Stansel, Induction

> I Graw-Hill Book
Co., Inc., New York, 1949. 212 McGraw-Hill

Heating.
pp.

February 1954 (Part II)

—-— oN

HEATING CORE

 

Fig. 1. Cross section of specimen assembly showing susceptor, specimen,

and insulating housing.

specimens with sighting holes with the results obtained on
specimens in which very fine thermal couples (which were
known to have no effect on the body factor) were used to
measure the temperature.

(1) Procedure
(A) Materials:

Alumina, magnesia, and beryllia speci-

mens were investigated at the high temperatures. Chemical
analyses of these materials are given in Table I. Materials

such as zirconia, which becomes electrically conducting at
elevated temperatures, are not suitable for this method be-
cause of the possibility that some of the heat will be generated
within the specimen and not entirely in the heating core, thus
upsetting the theoretical basis of the method.

(B) Sample Fabrication: The specimens were made by slip
casting the ground powders of the oxide materials according
to the usual methods.? Figure 2 is a picture of a mold used to
make the specimens and shows the metal insert for forming
the pyrometer sighting holes.

The specimens were fired to zero apparent porosity at
1850°C. and had a final total porosity of between 5 and 10%.

(C) Assembly: After the specimens are fired, two halves
(one with pyrometer sighting holes and the other without)
are taken and the flat surfaces ground to a good fit. Metal
cones are inserted at the bottom of the sighting holes and
radiographs of the specimen are taken. In addition to pro-
viding information for the calculation of the body factor,
these radiographs reveal any internal flaws in the specimen
which would make it unsuitable for testing.

From measurements on the specimen and the radiographs,
the body factor is calculated. )

The metal susceptor is placed in the specimen (made up ol
the two halves) and the specimen is placed in the insulating
housing. The entire assembly is then placed in the vacuum
chamber. :

(D) Power Measurement: The inductive power is supplied
by a 10,000-cycle 7.5-kilowatt generator. The load is bal-
anced to unity power factor (indicated by the Lissajou figure
on an oscilloscope) by the balancing condenser. Che power
input to the system is calculated from a knowledge of the cur-
rent input and the voltage across the inductor coil. Itcan be
shown* that (to within 19) the power in the susceptor 1S
given by

Pin 3)

\ 0)

P = (Pin et Pout) P = ( :
out

Pin = total power input to system with susceptor in place. re-

Pi. = total power input (at same voltage) with suscep

moved.

“ oh ro ay : tire apparatus, and

Figure 3 is a schematic diagram ol the entire apparat or
ns gs : . res racuum fur-
Fig. 4 is a detail drawing showing the end of the vact

Thermal Conductivity, V 89

 

 

Fig. 2. Mold for making specimens, showing metal insert for
forming pyrometer sighting holes.
Table I. Chemical Analyses (9%) of Specimens
Components Alumina* Magnesiat Beryllial
Fe,O; 0.31 0.05 0.01
S10, 24 .30 .00
TiO, 01 .00
ALO, Remainder 14 .08
CaO .39
Cr.0; .00
MgO Remainder 18
BeO Remainder

* Analysis of raw material; Norton Company Alundum abra-
sive grain 38 X 220F.

7 Analysis of raw material.

i Analysis of fired material; raw material, Clifton Products
Company refractory-grade (220-mesh) beryllium oxide.

nace and the sighting arrangement. Figure 5 is an over-all
view of the apparatus and Fig. 6 shows a close-up of the mn-
ductor coil and sighting window in the end of the furnace.

Ill. Results

Figures 7, 8, and 9 give the thermal conductivity results for
alumina, magnesia, and beryllia, respectively, as obtained in
the temperature range 1000° to 1800°C. The different sym-
bols in each figure indicate experimental values obtained on
different specimens. As can be seen, there is no marked dif-
ference between specimens of the same material. The solid
points of Fig. 7 are for the first specimen of alumina to be run,
and indicate the enormous spread of values obtained before
the careful experimental technique necessary was perfected.

As far as the results of this investigation in themselves
warrant, a straight line through the experimental points 1s
probably all that is justified. However, the results at the
lower temperature (1000° to 1300°C.) must be matched with
the results of the electrical resistance determinations, which
show a decrease with temperature in this range (see Part III,
this series), and since a continued decrease is inconsistent with
the present results, it is necessary to draw the curves with a
minimum of conductivity as shown.

(a) F.H. Norton, “Pure Beryllium Oxide as a Refractory,”
J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 30 [8] 242-45 (1947). a:
(b) W. E. Hauth, Jr., “Slip Casting of Aluminum Oxide,
ibid., 32 [12] 394-98 (1949). a

* See Appendix to this paper, p. 87.


S86 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—McQuarrie Vol. 37, No. 2 February 1954 (Part II) Thermal Conductivity, V 7
Soo Cortiontar To Control Unit temperature distribution over ? 0 i 81
) the surface of the heating = §
dbo rasa | | core. This was found to be > 0.02
Co uniform to within a few de- 'E
Ji grees. This would affect the 3
Gallus Foy = accuracy (absolute value) of

Oscilloscope

 
 
  

the results and not so much
their precision (relative

S

Medium Silica Tube
Condenser (Opaque Quartz)

    

 

 

     

       

THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY (cal. sec” cm? °c’

V
a
=
0
~~
>
Large Condenser Heating Coil ——— — value). 5 5.01
9
ER a
Ng —
Zz
a 8
— a | : > - - - -
— IV. Limitations of 5 OM-I3 OM-I14 XM-IS
: \/ibrafi et q
Anti-Vibration — Mercury Method >
INDUCTION FURNACE Bellows — Manorneter 2 400 066 7206
$l rtf At Sl 0 Ne — / X 1400 1600 1800
= “1000 1200 1400 1600 B00 AVERAGE TEMPERATURE (*C)

N

  

  

AVERAGE TEMPERATURE (*C)

(1) Although the preci-
sion of the method is quite Fig. 7. Thermal conductivity of alumina (1000° to 1800°C.).
satisfactory considering the |
general difficulty of measur- APPENDIX
ing thermal conductivity and
the high temperature of the
work, it might be desirable
to improve the precision.
This could be done if the

5 Fig. 9. Thermal conductivity of beryllia (1000° to 1800°C.).

=]

/

High Temperature Thermal

IH]

  

Conductivity Measurements
y In calculating the power developed in the susceptor, use is

made of the equivalent electrical circuit of Fig. 10, which is
essentially that of a transformer. In this figure, e is the voltage
impressed across the terminals of the inductor coil (primary), R,
is the resistance of the coil, L, its inductance, #;, is the current

Pts
AL
TEA

Ir
[i

A

-
_

0.02

a
-y
ts

LA

Fore Oil —

~~
| 1/72 HP Pump Diffusion
| foot Motor Q AN / Pump
Na A) =

a
tn
a

-—
a

  

—-—— »

-

: aed
Sa

aa
a
»

wy

a

—
ts
a
>.

   
   
 

: A 7 rr a XE — power input and tempera- flowing in the coil, L; is the inductance of the susceptor (second-
fi Fig. 3. Schematic diagram of thermal conductivity apparatus. ture difference could be ary), Ks is its resistance, 4, is the current flowing in the suscep-
ji measured directly and hence tong 2 the cosinelens of mujusl inductance.

7 more accurately. A High 0.01 e following circuit equations can be written for this system:
Silica Tube temperature electrical heater and a high-temperature ther- Ruy + jolt, — joMi. = e (4)
Shutter Control Rod mocouple would solve this problem, but neither seems practi- Riis + jolts — joMi, = 0 (5)

K-30 Insulating Brick ‘al at this time.

These can be solved for the current in the primary and second-
ary, and also for the current in the primary when R. is infinite
(no susceptor in place).

Then, since the power consumed is the product of the current
and voltage, for the difference between the power consumption
Thermal conductivity of magnesia (1000° to 1800°C.). with the susceptor in place (Pix) and that with the susceptor re-
moved (Pout)

Pin = Pout =

Specimen Silastic O-ring OM-10 OM-Il XM-I2

Mo Susceptor

 
 

    

EOP TII

pe
yo

 

0.00 |
1000 1200 1400 1600 1800
AVERAGE TEMPERATURE (*C)

THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY (cal sect’ cm? *C™! cm)

  

A

Clear Quartz : ‘
Window MIE a : i
ndo —.. | - Fig. 8.

 
  
     

AONRNUURRURRRON

 

 

 

Fe — WM?
< ~ . . e? Th EY \ PETC 6
j (2) The present results were not carried to higher tem- (oz + joL,)[(Ry + jwL,)(R: + jwL.) + TT) (6)
7 ” / . . . fi .
ngigciiit actiiiccntmggunrz / peratures because of the power limitations of the apparatus. The actl nomen hE Seoantrs (BY de di Sor lov thi ida
i - . . . . c €¢ actua er 11 Sec ad 1S ye C produc
Platinum | Opa Optics) [his could be overcome with a larger unit, although a point of p y g y the p
paque Pyrometer inde De la of the square of the secondary current and the secondary imped-
Sighting Cones | Eng: pierce diminishing returns (large increase of power to obtain a small a
DE ance ¢ S
\ temperature rise) would soon be reached.
linch Shutter (3) The temperatures reached in these tests are very close Pisa [- ~~? M¥(R: + jwL.) | (Ta)
to the operating limits of the insulating brick (Babcock and (Ri + jwL,) (Rs + jwL. + 2M?) |
Fig. 4. Detail drawing of specimen assembly in end of silica-tube Wilcox K-30) and higher-temperature tests would require or
furnace showing sighting with optical pyrometer. better insulation. If it should prove impractical to develop a 1
LI ; \ high-temperature insulating brick, some sort of radiation Pg =APy= Pui) pp (70)
. , eneral view of thermal conductivity apparatus. shield: : ave ta be re » 1 - lide a.
shielding would have to be developed. = @ ELE Fol).

The best idea of the precision of the results is obtained from or, expanding into an infinite covergent series and taking the

Sach : : : ; onclusions
the standard deviation of the experunental points from the VC

first two terms,
(I) A practical method for the measurement of the ther-

 

 

 

curve drawn through them. For the results on alumina, mag- mal La rE erials at elevated tempera- ; p 1 WM?
nesia, and beryllia these deviations are + 13.5%, £=10.7%,, and t ANE Of TO AS PisaRin ny Lous ~ (RF jel) (BR: + jel)
I. 1¢ C7 : srntivrolsr . - AQ Ia re WATE > >
£12.0%, respectively. (In the case of alumina, the first hres has been developed. : { bervllia (7¢)
(M1 » 3 1 » . » AQ : | T™ : T QQ . i QQ \ < 1114 < 0118814, anc JY £
specimen has beg n omitted for the reason given above.) The (2) The results of (ests ol Blur, Wag WL 1 ee e—————————————————
main cause of the scatter in the experimental points is the from 1000° to 1800°C. indicate that the decrease of therma
fact that two of the quantities in the fundamental equation conductivity with rising temperature noted at lower tempera- iy
< . < - ‘ ie -
given by the difference between two primary quantities No and above which the conductivity increases, very markedly :
estimate of the absolute accuracy of the results can be made the case of alumina and magnesia and slightly 1n the case R,
except to say that it 1s certainly no bette Treas beryllia.
and nl possibly be worse. betierithan the precios (3) The mean deviation of the results from a mean curve
. a : - : » \* ig < > ¢ ~ * : . * - »
Another possible source of error is a lack of correct tempera- (a measure of their precision) is about = 12%, a satistactor)
ture distribution in the system; i.e., the isothermal surfaces figure for thermal conductivity results in general 9 Se
« “ » : Tt : 2 eT TIC raQ Ags » . 3 NT FS , : » - » {or Are 2S < which t 1€S€ re- . . . = .
ire not true spheroids. This was checked by checking the cially so considering the high temperatures at Fig. 10. Equivalent electrical circuit of induction furnace.

Fig. 6. View showing sighting end of furnace. sults were obtained.


88
Calculation shows that
Pin — Pour _ —w?M? pe, (8)
Pout = (Ry + jwL) (Re + jwLa) + &*M

If the term w2M? is neglected in the denominator of equation
(8), equation (7) can be written

Pin — Pout "
P = (Pin — Pout) (1 + Pin > Lous) (7d)

out

Journal of The American Ceramic Sociely—Kingery

eee —— TE

Vol. 37, No. 2
Pin
or P = (Pin — Pout) Pout (7e)

which is equation (3) given in the body of this paper.

Substitution of actual values obtained experimentally indi-
cates that at high powers the ratio Pin: Pout 1s about 1.08 and at
low powers it is about 1.10. This indicates that the approxima-
tions made are valid to within 1% and that equation (3) or
(Te) gives the true power in the susceptor to within 19.

Thermal Conductivity: VI, Determination of Conductivity
of Al,O. by Spherical Envelope and
Cylinder Methods

by W. D. KINGERY

Values of the thermal conductivity of Al,O; have
been determined by methods employing a spheri-
cal envelope specimen completely surrounding a
heat source and a long hollow cylinder in which
a center section is employed for a test zone.
Values obtained are in close agreement with
values previously determined by other methods.

I. Introduction

PPLICATION of thermal conductivity data has been hin-
A dered in the past by a decided lack of confidence in the
published values. This has been due mainly to large
discrepancies between values reported by variousinvestigators
for the same materials (see footnote 1 below and Part I, this
series). These variations are probably due to experimental
techniques which must be carefully controlled to obtain satis-
factory results.? Previously in this series it has been reported
that thermal conductivity values for pure aluminum oxide,
magnesium oxide, and beryllium oxide measured by two dif-
ferent methods have been in good agreement (Parts IIT and
IV). The present study is a further attempt to check these
methods by independent means and to demonstrate that in-
dependent methods of measurement give equivalent results
for the same material. Aluminum oxide was selected as a test
material.

The first method chosen for investigation was a spherical
envelope method. If a hollow sphere surrounds a uniform-
temperature heat source and the temperature is measured at
two different radii of the sphere, thermal conductivity can be
calculated from the expression

Lal
B= o.~); =

BQ
k = - where B = ————
Al Tv (2)
k = thermal conductivity.
Q = steady-state heat flow.
D, and D; = diameters at measuring points,
t, and tf, = temperatures at D; and D,, respectively.

This general method has previously been employed by Euc-
ken and Laube.® The method is theoretically simple and
sound; the only disadvantages are experimental.

The second method employed in this investigation was the
use of a center portion of a long hollow cylinder. In this
case, thermal conductivity is given by the expression

D,
Q In D, BQ

= In (D,/D,)/2xl.

B =
I = length of test zone.

This method has been long used for pipe covering,* and is
theoretically simple and satisfactory under certain conditions.
Sample fabrication is a difficulty.

These two methods of measurement are completely inde-
pendent of each other as are the previous methods employed
in this laboratory. It was the feeling of the present investi-
gators that agreement of values obtained by these methods
would unequivocably demonstrate that various methods of
measurement can be used with good results if careful tech-
nique is employed. Conversely, disagreement of results
would have necessitated a careful review of the principles and
techniques previously and presently employed.

Il. Methods and Results
The method of employing spherical envelope specimens 1s
simple in concept and theory. The major experimental diffi-
culties are obtaining a uniformly heated spherical heat source,

'(a) J.B. Austin, “Factors Influencing Thermal Conductivity
of Nonmetallic Materials,” pp. 3-67 in Symposium on Thermal
Insulating Materials, American Society for Testing Materials,
Fo Jstpaia, 1939. 123 pp.; Ceram. Abstr., 20 [2] 45; [4] 97

(b) P. Nicholls, “Determination of Thermal Conductivity of
Refractories” (report for American Society for Testing Mater!-
als, Subcommittee C-8), Bull. Am. Ceram. Soc., 15 [2] 37-51
(1936).

d : C. L. Norton, Jr., “Apparatus for Measuring Thermal Con-
uctivity of Refractories,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 25 [15] 451-59
(November 1, 1942).

d A. Eucken and H. Laube, “Measurement of Thermal Con
TY Refractory Materials at High Temperatures
na. Lig, 53 [91] 1599-1602 (1929): Ceram. Abstr.,

197 (1930). [91] 1599-1602 (1929); Ceram S

*G. B. Wilkes, Heat Insulation. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

a York, 1950. 224 pp.; Ceram. Abstr., 1950, November, P-
1.

 

February 1954 (Part II)

    
   
   
   
  
 

 

       
   

TS AO AR ra
ToL J >
SOS Ne Ny 4 NNT
A 5 + "3 y = N XC Od x
Ee Ey
A Ey TEAS SIR CRANE) SER
SSRN NS INSULATING BRICK 33
PETS oS 0 £3 5 a A a NN
NZ OR ERAN C5
NR eo BE
>, IA, wv VE AY - 50 PS SAL ’ A
Au SSitanaint one
* THERMOCOUPLES SZ Eg ; NR
a PEIN LS a Ns

=U i QR aR
7 HS A

 
   
       
     
 

’ NE aA
RUGS MEIER

oA - ed Re nN Ee AR
Ne

Q AO)
3 ASCO) =
ty Ph San ANS 7
ES PS CA Ae SANT
AN rae

 

3 - nN > SE
0 SASSY s CORY % RRL,
a RA CA ENA Te
4,

Fig. 1. Cross section of spherical test assembly.

 

Fig. 2. Photograph of spherical specimen in insulating firebrick shell

fabricating spherical samples, and locating thermocouples
along the spherical isotherms. After some experimentation
all these requirements were met satisfactorily.

The heater consisted of 0.016-in. platinum wire wound on a
spherical core of dense Al,O;. The Al,O; sphere was approxi-
mately 1.5 in. in diameter. It was prepared by slip casting
and prefired to 1100°C. to give it sufficient strength for final
shaping. To maintain temperature uniformity over the sur-
face of the sphere, the heat generated per unit area must be
constant. It can be easily shown that windings must be uni-
formly spread on the circumference (not on the diameter) to
meet this condition. Grooves meeting these specifications
were cut in the prefired sphere by hand and it was then high
fired. The platinum resistance winding was installed and
Covered with a uniform layer of Alundum cement. Ee

Hemispherical samples were prepared by ship casting 1n
Plaster molds. The sample dimensions were 1.75 1m. inside
diameter and 3.5 in. outside diameter. Circular thermocou-
Ple holes were cast in place near the inner and outer surface
(along the isotherms). These were formed by coating heavy
Cotton thread with molten paraffin and forming to shape.

 

Wm 7

—— . pn)
— oe ie

Fig. 3. Photograph of spherical test assembly.

The solidified paraffin coating maintained its shape during
casting and burned out on firing without rupturing the speci-
men. Location of thermocouples along the isotherms pre-
vents any distortion of heat flow by the thermocouples and
insures that temperature measurements are not erroneous
owing to temperature gradients in the thermocouples.

The plane surfaces of two hemispherical halves were lapped,
and assembled around the heating core. Samples were radio-
graphed to locate the thermocouple positions accurately.
Heat input was measured with a wattmeter; temperatures
were measured with Pt-Pt-109, Rh thermocouples. The
assembly was covered with a 2-in. layer of insulating firebrick,
Babcock and Wilcox K-28, to increase the mean temperature
of the specimen. Thermal conductivity was calculated by
equations (1) and (2). The test specimen and assembly are
shown in Figs. 1 to 3.

The method of employing a hollow-cylinder tester is simi-
larly simple in concept and theory, but involves some difficul-
ties experimentally. To insure cylindrical isotherms at the
center of a finite cvlinder, it has been shown that the length-
diameter ratio must be greater than four.® To achieve at
least this ratio, and at the same time allow for a heating zone
long enough for precise measurements and a cylinder diameter
large enough for precise measurements, the sample size be-
comes considerable and makes fabrication difficult. As in the
case of the sphere, thermocouple holes must be along isotherms
(parallel to the axis) to prevent heat loss and to allow precise
measurements.

The sample shape chosen is shown in Figs. 4 to 6. The
heater was formed by uniformly spacing 0.016-in. platinum
windings along a two-hole Alundum thermocouple tube 3/s in.
in outside diameter. Voltage leads to a wattmeter were
brought in by separate holes through saw cuts in the tube and
welded to the heater, forming a test zone about 4 mn. long.
After forming, the heater was uniformly coated with a layer of
Alundum cement to hold it in place.

The Al,O; sample was prepared by slip casting (inside diam-
eter, about 0.6 in.; outside diameter, about 1.5 in.).
Thermocouple holes were cast in place by suspending heavy
cotton threads along the axis near the inner and outer sur-
faces. The entire sample length was about 18 in. and the test
sone was 4 in., leaving 7 in. on either side to insure cylindrical
isotherms over the test zone. This is considerably longer
than the minimum requirements.

5 A. B. Newman, ‘Heating and Cooling Rectangular and Cy-.
WE Solids,” Ind. Eng. Chem., 28, 545-48 (1936).


ee

Journal of

   
      
  

      

     

      
   
 
  

AR 2 A! i 7 ti)
oi i 2)
0 i a is if _ oo a Fira sha
2 o a Lo 0 0

hy imap ped dea hd pr pee Bb db dm tS a At RE I TES So THERMOCOUPLE

Sl i — INNER THERMOCOUPLE
VOLTMETER LEAD

  

——— Heater WINDING
— = — SS —— SAMPLE

7 ’ > i a 7 i > / a
si li Ws Wil i i

‘ eX
ath

     
    
 
 
 

        
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    

 

i 1FB —K28

Se

Fig. 5. Cross section of central portion of cylindrical test assembly.

The sample was surrounded with a cylindrical layer of in-
sulating brick to increase the mean sample temperature.

Temperatures were measured with Pt-=Pt-109, Rh ther-
mocouples; input to the test zone was measured with a watt-
meter. Thermal conductivity was calculated from equation
(3). The length of the test zone and the thermocouple diam-
eters were determined from radiographs.

The results obtained from measurements with two separate
spherical samples and two cylindrical samples are shown in
Fig. 7. For comparison the results of previous measurements
on the same material by other methods (see Parts ITT and IV)
are shown as the solid line.

 

lll. Discussion of Results

As can be seen in Fig. 7, the mean values obtained by both
the spherical test method and the cylindrical test method are
in close agreement with each other and with values previously
determined by a comparative method (see Part IV) and by a
prolate spheroidal envelope method (see Part III). These
results unequivocably demonstrate that equivalent results
can be obtained by various methods of measuring thermal con-
ductivity. |

It must not be inferred that any method will give satis-
factory results. It has been many times demonstrated that
the most careful experimental technique is required to obtain
satisfactory results. Norton? has clearly shown the large
errors that can arise from quite small variations in experi-
mental conditions, and comparative results from various
laboratories (see Part I, this series, and footnote 1, this paper)
clearly indicate the difficulties inherent in measurements
of thermal conductivity. However, if precautions are observed
in design and operation of apparatus to secure a rigorously
correct pattern of heat flow, satisfactory methods of tempera-
ture measurements, and satisfactory methods of heat-flow
measurement, equivalent results can be obtained by various
methods.

Although the methods described here are theoretically
sound and lead to correct experimental results, they are not
recommended for general use. This is primarily due to the
difficulty in fabricating suitable specimens. :

 

The American Ceramic Society—RKingery Vol. 37, No. 2

Fig. 4. Photograph of cylindrical specimen in insulating firebrick shell.

 

Fig. 6. Photograph of cylindrical test assembly.

IV. Conclusions

(1) Equipment, methods, and results are described for
measuring thermal conductivity at elevated temperatures
with spherical and cylindrical specimens.

(2) Results obtained for Al,O; by the two methods de-
scribed are in agreement with each other and with results pre-
viously obtained by two other methods.

(3) Thermal conductivity can be measured with equiva-
lent results by various methods and techniques.

0.06

0.05

     

£
Q
ow, 001 SPHERICAL SPECIMENS
§
7, O CYLINDRICAL SPECIMENS
O a
.
- 003
v
wv
a
°
Q
= 002
0.01
0.00
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
TEMPERATURE (°C)
Fig. 7. Results of thermal conductivity measurements. Solid line indi-

cates values previously obtained by other methods (see Parts lil and IV).

 

Thermal Conductivity: VII, Analysis of Variation
of Conductivity with Temperature
tor Al,O,, BeO, and MgO

by MALCOLM McQUARRIE

The results of previously published investigations
into the thermal conductivities of alumina, mag-
nesia, and beryllia by five different methods in 008
different temperature ranges are summarized in
the empirical equation kt = 4/(T — 125) + 8.5
X 10-%71° where A = 16.2 for alumina, 18.8
for magnesia, and 55.4 for beryllia; the equation
is valid (within about 109) from room tempera-
ture to 1800°C. for alumina and magnesia and
from 1000° to 1800°C. for beryllia. The de-
parture from the reciprocal temperature law at
the higher temperatures (represented by the
second term in the equation) is believed to be due
to an increase in the apparent conductivity by the
passage of radiant energy through the translucent
specimens.

)
Oo
o
fo

0.04

k(cal. sec”! °c 'em 22cm

0.02}

 

I. Introduction
0.00

T is the purpose of this paper to summarize the thermal 0 peo or URE re) 1500 2000
conductivity results obtained for alumina, magnesia, and

beryllia over the temperature range room temperature to Fig. 1.
1800° C. by five different methods: (1) a comparative method
(see Part IV, this series), (2) an electrical resistance prolate
spheroidal envelope method (Part III), (3) a spherical en-
velope method (Part VI), (4) a cylindrical envelope method
(Part VI), and (5) a pyrometer-induction prolate spheroidal
envelope method at high temperatures (Part V).

In this survey the author will examine the results, develop
an empirical equation for the variation of the thermal con-
ductivity with temperature, compare this variation with that
predicted by various theories, and present a theoretical basis
for the results at very high temperatures.

Thermal conductivity of alumina.

The combined results of the five methods are presented in
Fig. 1 (alumina), Fig. 2 (magnesia), and Fig. 3 (beryllia).
It can be seen that all three materials have relatively high
conductivities at low temperatures which decrease with in-
creasing temperature, reaching a minimum in the region
1300° to 1600°C. The conductivity of magnesia 1s about
109, higher than that of alumina at all temperatures whereas
that of beryllia is from 6 to 2 times that of alumina.

060

0.50

Oo
5H
o

030

020

k(cal. sec”! °C-!' ecm-2 cm)

0.0

 

0005 800 1000 1500 2000
TEMPERATURE (*C)

oo -

 

ey

500 1000 1500 2000
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 3. Thermal conductivity of beryllia.

Fig. 2. Thermal conductivity of magnesia.


0
19

80

THERMAL RESISTIVITY (1/k)
3 5

N
Q

05 500 1000 1500 2000

TEMPERATURE (°K.

Fig. 4. Thermal resistivity of alumina.

Il. Empirical Results

In developing an empirical expression for the variation of
conductivity with temperature, it is instructive to construct a
plot of thermal resistivity (reciprocal of thermal conductivity)
versus temperature. Such a plot for alumina is shown in Fig.
4. For the greater part of the temperature range, the values
lie roughly along a straight line. This line, however, does
not pass through the origin but reaches zero at about 125°K.
This means that the equation for the thermal conductivity
cannot be of the form 1/7 but must be of the form 1/(T—
T,), where the temperatures are in the absolute scale and 7
has a value of about 125°K.

Figure 5 is a similar plot of thermal resistivity vs. tempera-
ture for magnesia. It can be seen that although the experi-
mental values again lie roughly along a straight line, they are
not so close as in the case of alumina. However, the maxi-
mum departure from the line (except at the highest tempera-
tures) isnot more than 109, which is probably within the limits
of experimental error.

The plot of thermal resistivity vs. temperature for beryllia
(Fig. 6) shows that this material exhibits a very decided de-
parture from the linear relationship at the lower temperatures
(below about 1000°C). However, the linear relation is rea-
sonably followed in the temperature range 1000° to 1500°C.
In view of the abnormally high conductivity (for ceramic
materials) of beryllia, this anomalous behavior at the lower
temperatures is not surprising.

All three materials show a very sharp departure from the
1/(T" — T,) relation at the highest temperatures. The em-
pirical expression will need a second term which becomes ap-
preciable at temperatures above 1000°C. and expresses this
departure from the 1/(T — To) relationship. At first sight, it
might seem that the departures from the 1/(T° — TY) law are
very different for the three materials, but an examination
of the results on the same scale (see Fig. 3) indicates that the
departures are of about the same order of magnitude. This is
confirmed by Fig. 7, which 1s a log-log plot of the departures
from the 1/(T" — T,) law (Ak) versus temperature. This
shows that (within the experimental error) the same second
term is valid for each material.

The linear relation on the log-log plot suggests a second
term of the form

Ak = BT" (1)
T = absolute temperature.

B and n = constants whose values (determined from the log-log
plot) are 8.5 X 107% and 10, respectively.

Journal of The American Ceramic Society—M cQuarrie

  
  
  
      

Vol. 37, No. 2

60

40

THERMAL RESISTIVITY (1/k)

 

05 500 1000 1500 2000

TEMPERATURE (°K)

Fig. 5. Thermal resistivity of magnesia.

Thus the final empirical expression is
k= A/T — 125) + 8.5 X 107%" (2)

where the constant A takes the values 16.2, 18.8, and 55.4 for
alumina, magnesia, and beryllia, respectively, and the expres-
sion is valid from room temperature to 1800°C. for alumina
and magnesia, and from 1000° to 1800°C. for beryllia.

lll. Comparison with Physical Theory

A review of various theories of thermal conductivity of
crystalline ceramic materials is included in the Appendix of
this paper (see p. 95). All theories predict a falling con-
ductivity with increasing temperature in the temperature
range of this investigation (from room temperature to 1300 °C.
or above one-third of the Debye temperature, which is the
important parameter in theories of thermal conductivity).
All the theories predict a 1/7 relationship or something close
to it. In particular none of the theories predicts (as has been
erroneously reported in the literature!) a minimum of thermal
conductivity at any temperature.

Although it would seem that these results definitely do not
follow a 1/7 relationship and thus do not confirm any of the
theories predicting this relationship, more accurate work and
particularly work at temperatures below room temperature
(where the theories show very marked differences) 1s needed
before a final critical evaluation of the theories can be made.
Therefore it is thought best not to tie the results of this in-
vestigation to any one theory, but to let them stand as em-
pirically expressed above.

(It should be noted that all the theories except one (Endo’s)
require a knowledge of the conductivity at some temperature
for the valuation of one or more constants and therefore only
relative values or the shape of the conductivity-temperature
curve are predicted. In the case of Endo’s theory, there is sO
much latitude in the evaluation of the constants that a com-

parison of absolute values is nearly meaningless.)

IV. Apparent Conductivity at High Temperatures

As noted above, none of the present theories of conductivity
predicts a minimum of conductivity at any temperature,
yet that is exactly what was found in this investigation. In
this section the author attempts to establish a theoretical

3 IW. J. Knapp, “Thermal Conductivity of Nonmetallic Single
Crystals,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 26 [2] 48-55 (1943).

  
   

 

February 1954 (Part II)

35

30

nN
(5)

(1/ x)

nN
Oo

on

THERMAL RESISTIVITY

0 500 1000 1500

TEMPERATURE (°K) £000

Fig. 6. Thermal resistivity of beryllia.

basis for this rising conductivity at the higher temperatures
on the assumption that it is due to the transmission of radiant
energy through the slightly translucent specimens. In con-
sidering the effect of radiation passing through the specimen,
a term (or terms) representing the passage of radiant energy
(ky = the true thermal conductivity) must be added to the
fundamental conductivity equation:

dt
gc = —ki Ic (3)

Consider a square centimeter of a plane slab of thickness a
(Fig. 8) bounded by opaque material of temperature 7; on the
inner face and 7, on the outer face. (In general T; will be
higher than T3, the temperature of the inner surface of the
slab, and 7°, will be lower than 7. because of the interfacial
thermal resistance.)

The radiant energv passing through a square centimeter of
area normal to the line of heat flow at a point x will be made up
of all the energy originating somewhere to the left of x which
1s absorbed somewhere to the right of x.

Mathematically, this energy must be written as four sepa-
rate expressions: (a) that for the radiation originating be-
tween x = 0 and x and absorbed between x and x = a; (8)
that for the radiation originating in the inner material and
absorbed between x and x = a; (¢) that for radiation originat-
ing between x = 0 and x and absorbed by the outer material;
and (d) that for the radiation from the inner material ab-
sorbed by the outer.

[he mathematical expressions are

hh = I= fe ~a( 7.4 = T,4)e ~*¥ 12 atdyd: (4a)

ge = I “ole Tit — T,)e*¥ ™ 3) ady (4b)
G= [AT = ol (40)
gis = oleli* — e1,)e ad (4d)

: = radiation constant.
. > appropriate emissivity.
= absorption coefficient of material.
ae total radiant energy (g,) passing through 1 sq. on
: ¢ material is given by the sum of the equations (4), and oe
otal heat flow through the body by the sum of equations (3
and (4) | Co
os general, the integrals involved cannot be evaluated since
€ Value of the temperature as a function of x is not known.

 

Thermal Conductivity, VI]

  
     

93

G.0!

-1

*C.

      

o
8

AK (col. sec.

o
3

0001
1250 1350 1460 1575 1700 1840 1990 2150
TEMPERATURE (°x)

Fig. 7. Departure of thermal conductivities from basic 1/(T — T;) law.

 

Fig. 8. Cross section of plane slab with both radiant and conductive
transfer of heat.

However, if it is assumed that the temperature varies linearly
between T; and 7. and that the difference of the fourth
powers can be replaced by the expression 47,'AT (where 77 1s
the temperature at x and AT'is the difference between the two
temperatures involved), equations (4) can be integrated.
This will give an expression for the radiant-heat passage as
rigorous as the assumptions made, but itis extremely unwieldy
since it has a great number of terms.

By making a further assumption which is probably as valid
as the one concerning the temperature function, a very simple
expression for the radiant-energy passage 1s obtained. It is
assumed that the slab is thick enough, the absorption coet-
ficient large enough, and point x far enough from the bound-


94 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—McQuarrie

(a)

TEMPERATURE —

Fig. 9. Temperature gradients across slab without radiant transfer (a)
and with radiant transfer (b), (c).

ary for the integral in equation (4a) to be written from 0 to
» instead of the limits given. The assumption also implies
that the other three equations are essentially zero. Integrat-
ing this,

hi 12 (5)

pm trp

a @

Since the total heat flow (g¢) is given by the sum of the radiant
and conductive heat flow, the following equation can be writ-
ten:

gt = ge + ¢r
ge = eT + a GE (6)
or solving for the true conductivity
gr — 4071? (2 = 1) :
him (7)

Since ¢; is measured experimentally and the apparent con-
ductivity calculated from the expression k, = qi/ AT, it is
seen that the true conductivity is less than the apparent con-
ductivity by some amount which can be calculated if the
quantities in equation (7) are known.

Figure 9 shows the gradient (a) which would occur across
the slab if all the heat passed by conduction and the smaller
gradient (b) which actually occurs since some of the energy 1s
passing by radiation transfer. If xis assumed to be equal to
0 or a, the amount of radiant energy at the boundaries will be
obtained. In this case, all except equations (4b) or (4c)
(which are mathematically equivalent) are equal to 0 (or
essentially so). Then for the radiation across the boundary

qr = tT] (T, mn 1) -}- (B=) | (8)
a «x

Depending on the relative sizes of the first and second items in
the brackets, the value of ¢, at the boundary may be less than,
equal to, or greater than that in the center of the slab. It is
difficult to estimate the effect of the boundaries, but experi-
mental work with pieces of different thicknesses might give
some indication since the effect would be more pronounced in
thinner pieces.

One type of gradient that could be caused by the boundary
effects is shown by (¢),Fig.9. (For a more precise and exhaus-

eeee—— TT

Vol. 37, No. 2

tive treatment of the passage of radiant heat through trans-
lucent materials the reader is referred to Kellett’s discussion
of the passage of radiant energy through glass. When the
same simplifying assumptions used in the foregoing derivation
are applied to Kellett’s equations, they reduce to the results
presented here.)

Although it is not possible to apply the equations derived
above to such a complicated shape as the prolate spheroids
used in this investigation, it is possible to calculate the magni-
tude of the radiant-heat flow for the case of a simple slab of
the same thickness as the author's samples and at the same
temperature, and to see if this is an appreciable portion of the
whole heat flow. From the value of apparent conductivity of
magnesia at 2000 °K. (0.019 c.g.s. units) it is determined that
the total heat flow through a slab with this mean temperature
and a gradient of 100°K. per cm. is 1.9 cal. per sec. per cm.?
Taking a value of about 16 cm. ~! for the absorption coefficient
of magnesia, it is found from equation (5) that g, is about 0.6
cal. per sec. per cm.? Thus it is evident that the radiation
heat flow is a considerable portion of the total heat flow.

Another way of looking at the question is to calculate the
true conductivity from equation (7) and compare it with the
apparent conductivity. The apparent conductivity has been
found to be 0.019 c.g.s. units and the true conductivity from
equation (5) is 0.013 c.g.s. units. Thus the radiation through
the specimen is seen to increase the apparent conductivity
over the true conductivity by nearly 509%. It should be em-
phasized again that these figures are not directly applicable to
the present results but are given merely to indicate the sig-
nificant order of magnitude of the radiation effect.

From the foregoing discussion one might conclude that the
radiation effect (represented by the second term of the empiri-
cal expression for thermal conductivity) should increase as
the third or fourth power of the temperature (depending on
the temperature gradient) whereas the experimental results
appear to indicate that it increases as about the tenth power
of the temperature. A much more careful study of the radia-
tion effect is needed, however, before any very accurate quan-
titative expression can be obtained for it. Secondly, the der-
ivation above assumes that the absorption coefficient of the
material is a constant, and this is not true in practice, Itis
known that as the wave length of the radiant energy decreases
with increasing temperature, the effective or average absorp-
tion coefficient decreases. Furthermore, it is not certain that
the absorption is the same at all temperatures.

V. Conclusions
(1) The conductivity of alumina, magnesia, and beryllia
has the same general temperature dependence—a decrease
with increasing temperature until a minimum is reached at
about 1500°C., after which there is a sharp increase.
(2) The conductivities of the materials can be represented
by an empirical equation

k= A/T — 125) + 8.5 X 10751"

where the constant A has the value 16.2 for alumina, 18.8 for
magnesia, and 55.4 for beryllia. The equation is valid for
alumina and magnesia from room temperature to 1800°C. and
for beryllia from 1000° to 1800°C.

(3) The minimum of conductivity found in this investiga-
tion, and not predicted by any theory, is believed to be due to
an increase in apparent conductivity at the highest tempera-
tures caused by the passage of radiant energy through the
translucent specimens.

*B. 5. Kellett, “Steady Flow of Heat Through Hot Glass,”
J. Opt. Soc. Amer., 42 [5] 339-43 (1952); Ceram. Abstr, 1953,
March, p. 414. :

 

February 1954 (Part 11)

APPENDIX
Debye? published the first theory of conductivity in 1914
His theory is quantitatively expressed by the formula
roe RT ie
167% 3a® + 1 xt kT (9)

density of material.

: — propagation velocity of thermal waves.

¢ = specific heat of material.

Xo = compressibility of material.

, = frequency of heat waves.

ko = Boltzmann constant.

T = absolute temperature.

a= 3200 (subscript / indicates values at temperature ¢).

Xopt

It can be seen that at high temperatures (above the Debye
temperature, where the heat capacity is approximately con-
stant) the conductivity varies inversely as the temperature,
but near the absolute zero it should increase as the square of
the temperature, if it is assumed that the heat capacity varies
as the cube of the temperature in that region. Thus, the
conductivity will go through a maximum value al some tem-
perature and it can be shown that this occurs when the tem-
perature is 0.28 times the Debye temperature for the ma-
terial. The main drawback to this theory is the evaluation
of the constants involved—arbitrary and sweeping assump-
tions being necessary to do this. The variation of conduc-
tivity and resistivity with temperature according to this
theory is pictured in Fig. 4 (a), Part I, this series, p. 71.
The dotted lines indicate the variation of a 1/T relationship
for conductivity and the corresponding form for the resistivity
curve.

Next, Compton? published a theory which is diagrammed
in Fig. 4 (b). A quantitative expression of the theory is

 

8
2 — (Te &

k= 0ndRv———= 10

: c*1 (10)

4mm : :
= 222 (jn, and ms are masses of different atoms mn-
(my + ma)
volved).

n? = number of atoms per unit area perpendicular to heat flow.

d = distance between atoms parallel to heat flow.

R = gas constant for a single molecule.

v = frequency of oscillation of atoms.

¢ = constant to be determined from conductivity at given tem-
perature.
= absolute temperature.

8 = universal constant.

This gives a value of conductivity which is infinite at zero
degrees absolute. It would also seem that at some tempera-
ture (perhaps a very high one) the conductivity would become
zero and at still higher temperatures have a negative value.

Endd’s theory? is shown in Fig. 4 (¢) and is the first theory
to make use of quantum mechanics. Its quantitative ex-
pression is

hy
em
k = 3nkorv Na hy A er (11)
2 kel ¢ hv - 1) 3/a
“koT
r = factor dependent on type of space lattice.
4 = Boltzmann constant.
frequency of natural oscillation.
% = number of atoms per unit area.
' = Interatomic distance.
= Planck constant.
n= absolute temperature.

k, = Debye temperature.

This indicates a definite maximum of conductivity ata tem-
berature which can be shown to be equal to (0.27 times the

¢bye temperature. The conductivity falls off to zero at
“ero degrees absolute. At higher temperatures the conduc-
Wity varies as the square root of the reciprocal of tempera:

Thermal Conductivity, VII

95

ioe This is the only theory which is capable of giving an
absolute value of conductivity independently of any known
value of conductivity.

Peierls® developed the following expression for the thermal
resistivity (illustrated in Fig. 4 (d)):

r = AT + ATBe—0/2T (12)
I' = absolute temperature.
f = Debye temperature.
4 and B = constants.

Asis readily apparent, this theory predicts an infinite value of
conductivity at the absolute zero.

Papapetru’ advanced another theory of conductivity
(shown in Fig. 4 (e)) embodied in the following equation:

 

LhUgw ( ¢ U
k= 3v (5 + Tor (13)
? = volume of a gram atom.
¢ = specific heat of a gram atom.
w = average propagation velocity of heat waves.
R = gas constant.
U = 3LE, where L = Loschmidt number; E = average energy

of one wave.
| = mean free path of heat wave = lhU,/U.
lo = value of / at zero absolute.
Us = value of U at zero absolute.

At high temperatures where the approximation U = 2RT =
CT can be made, the theory predicts an inverse relationship
between temperature and conductivity, and at low tempera-
tures where the first term in the parentheses can be considered
zero, the theory predicts that conductivity varies as the re-
ciprocal of the temperature squared. Although the theory
predicts the unlikely result of infinite conductivity at the ab-
solute zero, the 1/7? relationship predicted at low tempera-
ture has been found experimentally.

Makinson $ in developing a theory for the thermal conduc-
tivity of metals, formulated an expression for the conductivity
of the lattice structure alone (no conducting electrons) which
should apply to electrical insulators. Since his mathematical
expression of his theory is cumbersome and unsuited to cal-
culation, it is not given here. His conclusions are pictured in
Fig. 4 (f), which show that at the higher temperatures the
conductivity falls with temperature, as in other theories, but
that, as in the theories of Debye and Endo, it goes through a
maximum and falls to zero at zero degrees absolute. This de-
crease at the low temperatures he attributes to the interference
of the boundaries of the test material with the heat waves,
which are fairly long at low temperatures. This is confirmed
experimentally by De Haas and Biermasz.? who found that the
thermal conductivity varied with the size of the specimen at
the lowest temperatures.

 

3 P. Debye, Vortrage iiber die kinetische Theorie der Materie
und Elektrizitit, p. 46; Gottinger Wolfskehlvortrage. B. G.
, Leipzig and Berlin, 1914. i
Tey 1 am “Physical Study of Thermal Conductivity of
‘4s. Phys. Rev., 7, 341 (1916). ge
Solids, Fudd, “Quantum Theory of Thermal Conductivity of
Nonmetallic Crystals,” Science Repts., Tohoku Imp. Univ. 11,
183 (1922). SF ton tar! W i
(a) R. Peierls, “Zur kinetischen Theories der Warmeleitung
in Kristallen” (Kinetic Theory of Heat Conduction In Crys-
tals), Ann. Physik, [5] 3, 1055-1101 (1929). oan
(b) R. Peierls, “7wei Bemerkungen sur Theorie der Leitfdhig-
keit”” (Theory of Conductivity), Ann. Physik, [5] 5, 244-46
(1930). CANxTi . in Kristallen” (Heat Con-
7 _ Papapetru, ‘‘W armeleitung in rista en’ (Heat Con
a in tals), Physik. Z., 35 [13] 527-28 (1934); Ceram.
Abstr., 14 [1] 22 (1935). eR
sR. E. B. Makinson, Thermal Conductivity o etals,
Proc. Cambridge Phil. Soc., 34, 474-97 (1938). a
9 Ww J. de Haas and Th. Biermasz, ‘Thermal Conductivity of
Quartz at Low Temperatures,” Physica, 2 [2] 673-82 (1935);
Ceram. Abstr., 15 [1] 44 (1936).


Thermal Conductivity: VIII, A Theory of Thermal
Conductivity of Porous Materials

by ARTHUR L. LOEB

The effective thermal conductivity of a porous
material is due to both conduction and radiation
processes. A theory is presented relating the
effective conductivity to the conductivity of the
solid material, to the emissivity of the surface of
the pores, and to the size, shape, and distribution
of the pores. By means of an anisotropic distri-
bution and orientation of pores, materials can be
prepared having different thermal conductivities
in different directions.

l. Introduction

ue thermal conductivity of a material is defined as the
T amount of heat crossing a unit area of the material per

unit time per unit temperature gradient. In porous ma-
terials heat is propagated by three processes: thermal
conductance through the solid and both radiation and con-
vection through the pores. When the pores are small, con-
vection can be neglected. It is assumed that the heat flow is
unidirectional, and that the presence of the pores does not
disturb the unidirectionality locally.

The first part of this discussion is devoted to the effective
thermal conductivity of the pores. The second part concerns
the way in which the local thermal conductivities in a hetero-
geneous material are combined to give the effective thermal
conductivity of the bulk material. It will be shown that not
only the relative amounts of pores but also their relative orien-
tation and position must be considered. This will be intui-
tively understood when it is realized that an array of pores in
a plane parallel to the direction of heat flow in a good thermal
conductor offers very little resistance to the heat flow, since
only a relatively small number of flow lines passes through the
pores. When the sample is rotated through 90 degrees so
that the heat flow is then perpendicular to the plane of the
pores, every flow line must pass through the pore plane, so
that the effect of the pores is much greater.

Il. Thermal Conductivity of Pores

Since heat transfer across pores occurs through radiation,
the term ‘‘thermal conductivity” may appear anomalous
when applied to pores. Yet the definition of thermal con-
ductivity given above is applicable here. Mathematically
this may be written

5 dt
dx
temperature.
distance along flow direction.
thermal conductivity.
amount of heat crossing a unit area in unit time.

nnn

—_n]

Vv

This may be integrated to give for a pore

= Af
W = +k—
Ax (1)
Af = drop in temperature across pore.
Ax = dimension of pore along flow direction.
» = effective thermal conductivity of pore.

When the temperature distribution over the surface of any
pore is known, the amount of heat radiated across the pore
can be calculated, for the amount of heat radiated per unit
area and time across a small temperature drop, At, is given

96

>

y

|

 

—r
nN

Fig. 1. Heat flow across a pore with circular cross section.

approximately by

W = +4 ecT?Al . (2)
e = emissivity of radiating surface.
s = Stefan’s radiation constant: 5.735 X 107° erg per cm. 2
per sec. ! per deg.™*
T = average absolute temperature of region across which radi-

ation occurs.

The distribution of temperature along the surface of a pore
can be found with the assumption that linear heat flow is not
disturbed in the solid surrounding the pore. InFig. 11s shown
a pore with circular cross section, together with the isotherms
and lines of heat flow. Since heat flow is linear, the tempera-
ture drop in the solid material is proportional to the distance
in the solid material across which it is measured, for in equa-
tion (1) W is constant along any line of flow in linear flow so
that Af and Ax are proportional ;

Four points have been chosen in Fig. 1, all lying on the same
flow line. The points P and ( lie on the surface of the pore,
whereas 4 and B lie on isotherms that are tangent to the pore,
representing respectively the temperatures #, and #. The line
AB is at distance y from the center of the pore. The tem-
perature drop between 4 and P is proportional to the distance
AP, the drop between ( and B is proportional to the distance
0B, and the drop between A and B is proportional to the
distance AB. Therefore, the temperature drop between P
and Q is proportional to the distance PQ. If this temperature
drop 1s called Afpq, then

Ate _ PQ
h — is AB

I the radius of the pore is 7,

Alpe 2 r? — y? — 7h?
h — ils or a 1 - (2)

 

 

February 1954 (Part II)

For acylindrical pore whose axis is perpendi

fow, the effective radiating ttn for a Sel er
whose projection onto Fig. 1 1s shown by line 4B ma =
chosen as a rectangular strip of length / equal to the len oh ;
the cylindrical pore and of width dy, oriented with the 5
side parallel to the axis of the cylinder and with the short ih
perpendicular to the direction of heat flow. With the aid of
equation (2) the amount of heat radiated from such a stri

at Ptoa corresponding one at ( is given by P

; Fw 2
Wildy = +4eaT?Alpoldy = +4eaT? \! -_ ?) (hh — t) ldy

The total amount of heat radiated across the pore is then

given bv
+ea T(t — bl [ \! - (2) a
—

[wid
+2e0T? (8, — t)lrm

I

Therefore the average amount of heat radiated across the
pore per unit cross-sectional area is given by

W = +meaT? (hh — b) (3)
Equation (1) would be written for this particular case
—- th — lo
W= +k =
+& 2r
k = 2rreaT?

It should be observed, therefore, that the effective conduc-
tivity of a pore due to radiation depends on the average
temperature of the pore and on the dimension of the pore.

For spherical pores, the reasoning is analogous to that used
above for cylindrical pores. The radiating strips chosen are
now circular, with radius y, and width dy, in planes perpendic-
dlar to the lines of heat flow. The amount of heat radiated
by a strip is given by

W2rydy = +8eaT?Al po™YAY

2
= +8eaT3 (li — to) \! = (2) Ty dy

The total amount of heat crossing a pore is now given by

r rn
| W2rydy +8xear?T?(lh — 5 [ V1 — x? xdx
0 0

Il

te ear2T3(t, — ta)

Hence, the average amount of heat crossing a spherical pore
— 8
per unit cross-sectional area equals W = 3 eaT3(h — t)-

From equation (1) it follows, therefore, that for a spherical
pore

kh = reo

For pores whose surfaces are everywhere either parallel or
perpendicular, as is the case for cylindrical pores with axes
parallel to the direction of heat flow ‘and for laminar structures
Ih which lamina of solid material are separated Dy thin gaps,
the heat radiated per unit area is simply given by

W = +4e oT — ta)
When the width of the gap is d, equation (1) is rewritten

Ww=Fk 7"

1 herefore

-
il
—-
[
SN
Q
~~
es

Thermal Conductivity, VIII

97

Generally, the effective conductivity] of a pore can then be
written ;

k = 4vdeoT? (4)
largest dimension of gap in direction of heat flow.
geometrical factor:

¥ = 1 for laminar pores and cylindrical pores with axes
parallel to heat-flow direction.

a
[|

2
¥=3 for spherical pores.

II

LE . . .
Y= for cylindrical pores with axes perpendicular to heat-

flow direction.

lll. Effective Conductivity of Heterogeneous Materials

It has been shown in the previous sections that the local
conductivity of porous materials varies as a function of posi-
tion. In this section, it will be shown how the effective con-
ductivity is found when the local conductivity is known every-
where. It has already been shown that the conductivity of
cylindrical pores depends on their orientation with respect to
the average direction of heat flow.

This discussion will be limited to materials containing
regions of two kinds of conductivities. The material will be
divided into tubes of flow oriented parallel to the direction of
heat flow which are just wide enough either to fit snugly
around pores in its path or to pass exactly between the pores.
Each tube may then contain a number of regions of different
conductivities in series with each other. In Fig. 2 is shown a
material with regularly spaced pores, and the tubes of flow
drawn in. Tubes containing pores are heterogeneous. From
equation (1) it is seen that the temperature drop, Af, across
any one of the homogeneous regions inside a porous tube is
given by

WAx,

Al, = —
kn

Ax, = dimension of homogeneous region measured along flow
direction.

k, = effective conductivity of region.

 

The total temperature drop across the sample, hence along
the length of a tube, is given by

al=S Al, = WY, Stn
n n

kn

since J is constant along a tube of flow.

For the solid sections of the tube k. =k.

For the porous sections of the tube 2, = 4vydesT®
(equation (4)).

Since the temperature varies along the length of the tube,
the effective conductivity of the pores depends on their posi-
tion in the tube. When the temperature is high, its variation
along the length of the tube is relatively slight, so that for 7°

Le ————
= germ TR SC

scons OL

sepa BE i

— —
—-— — —

Fig. 2. Tubes of flow for a porous material.


98 Journal of The America

in equation (4), its mean value in the sample, T3 can be sub-
stituted.
The total drop in temperature can then be written

a =w (2 i )

p 4yAx, eal?

 

The subscript s indicates summation over solid sections; the sub-
script p indicates summation over pores.
d in equation (4) equals Ax.

Since k, v, e, a, and T3 are constant along the length of the
tube, they can be put in front of the summation, so that

hy Ma) (5)
k 4~veoT?

 

At = w(

l, = 3 Ax, = combined length of solid sections in tube.
S
n, = number of pores in tube.

If the length of a tube, which equals the dimension of the
sample measured along the direction of heat flow, is called /,
then equation (1) can be written

 

 

= Af
7 ml
" k ;
kb = effective conductivity of tube.
Substituting equation (5) gives
W=rW G ls 4 =r
kl =~ 4veaT9
1 1
= (I=L) + Wr
4~veaT3l

PP. = fraction of length of tube occupied by pores.

The quantity //n, equals the average distance between
pores along a tube. If Py is the lengthwise fraction of pores,
the average length of the pore is then

d= Pr
ny

n, Pi

Ld

Therefore, the effective conductivity of a tube is given by

 

7.5 P;
ye —P—=
yk 2 ined TS (6)

The amount of heat passing through all tubes, each of which
has a cross-sectional area, A4,, and an effective conductivity,
ki. as given in equation (6), is given by

w= Tw = Th TF 4,
t t :

The subscript f indicates summation over all tubes.
At temperature drop across sample.
l dimension of sample in direction of heat flow.

IN

Ii A is the cross-sectional area of the sample measured per-
pendicular to the direction of heat flow, the amount of heat
crossing the sample per unit cross-sectional area is given by

goes A,
Woe 7 2h

The summation can be split into terms relating to solid tubes
denoted by subscript s, and terms relating to porous tubes

. )
denoted by subscript p:

, At 4. , v4
Wy = r (#25 +E Y)

e——

n Ceramic Sociely—Loeb Vol. 37, No. 2

. : 1
Defining the cross-sectional porosity Pe = = > A,, this
?

becomes
~ SANT —-
Combining this with equation (1) gives for the effective
conductivity of a porous material
k, = k(1 — Po) + k P.

Substituting equation (6) then gives

 

 

 

P,
p= #1 =P) +1 P
p (1 So Pr) 4 —==F__
4veadT?
k, P.
BaP) + 3
$ 1 — PL + Pet
4veadT?
dead T?
k Ler
ai ih
1% 4~vead1? 3 1 — Py.
k Pr

IV. Conclusions

Equation (8) expresses the ratio of the conductivity of
porous material to that of an equal volume of the solid com-
ponent in terms of

P. = fraction occupied by pores of a cross-sectional area cut
perpendicularly to direction of heat flow in a plane containing
pores.

Pj = fraction occupied by pores of length of a line of heat flow
that passes through pores.

vy = a geometrical factor depending on shape and orientation of
pores.

emissivity of pores.

Stefan radiation constant.

conductivity of solid.

dimension of a pore in direction of heat flow.

mean of cube of absolute temperature of sample.

Ln

With the aid of equation (8) the conductivity of a material
with controlled porosity can be calculated. When the ar-
rangement of the pores is anisotropic because either their
separation is larger in one direction than in another or because
the pores themselves are not spherical, then rotating the sam-
ple with respect to the direction of the temperature gradient
causes a change in conductivity of the sample. The con-
ductivity is no longer a scalar, but rather a tensor, and when
the sample is placed with a symmetry axis at an angle to the
direction of the temperature gradient, the heat flow will be
directed at an angle to the temperature gradient.

V. Corollary

Samples with Porous Zones Separated by Solid Zones

Equation (8) has been derived for samples in which the po-
rosity 1s either random or regular throughout the sample, so
that any region much larger than the size of the pores but
randomly chosen is identical with any other region thus chosen.
W hen a material is required to have great strength in one
direction and to have a low conductivity in a direction per-
pendicular to it, it may be advantageous to alternate zones of
solid material with zones of porous material, so that the
greatest strength lies in the direction parallel to these zones,
while heat flow perpendicular to the zones is effectively inter-

cepted by 3% ps ri
I by the porous zones. The conductivity of such ma-

3 Te 2 Saino paul) and perpendicular to the zones is
de oted be as, 1e conductivity of the sold material being
2 y &, that of the porous material by k, as given by
equation (8): alas feiss -
ey on 2 54 2 ri to Zones: 1f the temperature drop
ditection of be o and the length of the sample 1n the
eat flow 1s /, then the amount of heat crossing

 

February 1954 (Part II)

. porous’zone per unit area in unit time is given by

W=rt
l

For solid zones it 1s
w=

If the total cross-sectional area of the sample is 4, then the total
cross-sectional area of the porous zones can be denoted by
1.4, that of the solid zones by (1 — N.)4, where II, is the cross-
sectional fraction of porous zones, the cross section being cut
erpendicular to the direction of flow.

The total amount of heat crossing the sample per unit time
is then
Al

Al
MeAky, + (1 — ,)Ak

Hence the amount of heat crossing the sample per unit cross-
sectional area in unit time is

oll At
w =k, + (1 — mk] (9)

If the effective conductivity of the sample is denoted by K,
equation (1) can be written for the sample
Al
W = Ky
A117
Therefore, the effective conductivity of a sample consisting of
alternating zones of different conductivities oriented parallel to
the direction of heat flow 1s

kyand k = conductivities of the two kinds of zones.
Mand (1 — II;) = relative amounts of each zone taken.

(B) Heat Flow Perpendicular to Zones: The total tem-
perature drop across all solid zones is denoted by Al, the drop
across all porous zones by At, so that the temperature drop

Thermal Conductivity, IX

99

WE sample is Al= At, + Af. The total width of the
rs Se Il for all porous ones, by (1— II)! for all
> e quantity IT, now representing the lengthwise
porous zones, equals the II, defined for case (4) be-

Cause zones extend in two dimensions throughout the sample.
The amount of heat crossing a unit area in unit time equals

Al, :
W =k KI — IL) for the solid zones
and
At,

W =k, =

 

for the porous zones

—~—

Ww
roAL moo hr
y (1 — TL)

Adding the last two equations gives

DR
he w( + T) (11)

If the effective conductivity is denoted by K |, then equation
(1) can be written

Combining this with equation (11) gives

 

 

1 — 10 11
W=K W e 4 I
I Kw ( , +1)
so that
TE TT XT
Y=" '% (12)

Equations (10) and (12) are analogous to the electrical net-
work equations expressing the effective conductivities of par-
allel and series resistances respectively.

a

Thermal Conductivity: IX, Experimental Investigation
of Effect of Porosity on Thermal Conductivity

by J. FRANCL and W. D. KINGERY

The effect of isometric approximately spherical
pores and anisometric cylindrical pores on the
thermal conductivity of alumina, graphite, and
nickel has been investigated. Pore orientation
is found to affect profoundly the thermal conduc-
tivity for a given porosity. At temperatures be-
low about 500°C. the conductivity of a porous
sample in any given direction is equal to the solid
conductivity times one minus the cross-sectional
pore fraction or k, = k, (1 — p.). At higher
temperatures the pore size and emissivity become
important.

I. Introduction |
LMOST all technically important ceramic bodies Li
certain amount of pOTosity. The amount of air P 1ase
present plays such an important role among the mary

factors whi Tar rte
ctors which influence thermal conductivity that repo

data in which the porosity has not been specified are almost
meaningless for comparison with other results or as an 1n-
dication of a material property. If data for the thermal con-
ductivity of completely dense bodies were available, thev
could not be employed for most applications without some
knowledge of the effect of porosity. Similarly, 1t1s extremely
difficult to prepare completely dense bodies from most com-
and the relationship between porosity and con-

ositions : :
Rctvity must be known to determine a value for the solid
material. r tok

In porous bodies, heat transfer across the pores may take

lace by conduction, radiation, or convection. T hese
mechanisms have been considered previously in this geries
(see Part I). The change of thermal conductivity with
orosity has been studied extensively, and numerous attempts
De heen made to derive simplified relationships to approxi-
te the complex effects of pore spaces. It has been correctly
ed that not only the volume pore fraction but also the
re ¢ )

6 shape orientation, and emissivity of the pores had a
size,


100 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—Francl and Kingery Vol. 37, No. 2

 

 

 

l — 0
2

11-2} 50 F I

Eucken: kp =k —mm—>—~

i Pei

2Q + 1

P?/s + Q(1 — P%/3) 3
*PYr— P+ Q1 — Ps + P)

P.

Russell: kp, = k

Loeb: k, = k| (1 — Pc) +

 

PL.ks =k
doeyd Tn’

Radiation (Russell): k’' = ka + kr; kr = 140A Td

(1 — PL)

considerable effect on the thermal conductivity. Qualitative
statements of these effects have been supported by observed
derivations from the theoretically expected values. Previous
experimental data have largely been reported as minor parts
of more general investigations with commercial refractories
for which the pore characteristics and solid conductivity were
difficult to define, measure, or control.

In this series (Part VIII) Loeb has derived some rather
simple equations relating thermal conductivity with the
porosity and size, shape, and emissivity of the pores. In the
present experimental study it was desired to test this and
other theoretical relationships by preparing samples having a
known solid-phase conductivity and a known size, shape,
orientation, and emissivity of pores.

In addition to the experimental verification of the theoreti-
cal relationships (which all involve fairly crude assumptions),
the applicability of these results to practical systems will be
shown.

Il. Literature Review

Of the previously published theories the most generally
employed are the expressions by Russell’ and by Eucken.?
Both were derived from Maxwell's relation for conductors
and resistors. They treat isometric pores (spherical or
cubical) with equal dimensions in all three axes. Although
they differ in form, they lead to similar results. The effect of
porosity depends on the volume pore fraction and the ratio
between the conductivity of solid and air. The radiation
portion of heat transfer is treated as additive to the thermal
conductivity of air, thus lowering the ratio, (J, between the
thermal conductivity of solid and air and in this way in-
creasing the conductivity of the porous aggregate. These
relations and that of Loeb are given in Table I.

Ribaud® used the same isometric cubical type of pores in his
derivation of a quite different tvpe of formula of two com-
ponents: the expression for heat transmission through a cell
of air and for heat flow through solids.

k, E— Bair P'/s -}- ki, (1 — P?/3)

k. = conductivity of solid sample.
k, = conductivity of porous sample.
P = volume pore fraction.

I H. W. Russell, “Principles of Heat Flow in Porous Insula-
tors.” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 18 [1] 1-5 (1935).

2 A Eucken, ‘“Warmeleitfahigkeit keramischer feuerfester
Stoffe: Berechnung aus der Warmeleitfahigkeit der Bestandteile”
(Thermal Conductivity of Ceramic Refractory Materials; Cal-
culation from Thermal Conductivity of Constituents), Forsch.
Gebiete Ingenieurw., B3, Forschungsheft No. 353, 16 pp. (1932);
Ceram. Abstr., 11 [11] 576 (1932); 12 [6] 231 (1933). i

3 M. Ribaud, “Theoretical Study of Thermal Conductivity of
Porous and Pulverulent Materials,” Chaleur & ind., 18, 36-43
(1937)

Table I. Equations for Effect of Porosity on Thermal Conductivity

eeee——TTTTT TTT

 

 

k, = conductivity of porous sample.
k. = conductivity of solid sample.
ka = conductivity of air.

P = volume pore fraction.

Q = ks/Ra.

P. = cross-sectional pore fraction.
P. = longitudinal pore fraction.

o = radiation constant.

~ = geometrical pore factor.

e = emissivity.

d = dimension of pore.

T,. = mean absolute temperature.
A = cross-section area of pore.

a ——— a

The experimental values differed from the calculated values
in most cases.

A number of surveys including the effect of porosity have
appeared in the literature. Those by Austin*®) and by
Barrett‘ are the most comprehensive. Austin summarized
the established principles, compared them, correlated the
data in the literature, and added measurements on silica and
diaspore brick. The variation of the conductivity with
porosity was linear in diaspore brick, but the silica brick
showed a deviation from the linear relationship. The correla-
tion between the calculated values postulated by Russell’s
theory and measured values was found to be satisfactory.
One of the most serious drawbacks in this work was the lack of
any knowledge of the conductivity of “pure solid” as a base
for the calculations. Austin had to extrapolate the more or
less straight-line relationship between the porosity and
thermal conductivity, obtained by measurement of a few
samples with known porosity, to zero volume pore fraction.
In this way he introduced the values of 0.007 c.g.s. units for
the conductivity of pore-free diaspore at 300°C., which he
then used in the calculation of Alundum refractories.

Barrett,*® in a comprehensive survey in which he dis-
cussed the influence of voids on over-all thermal conductivity,
stressed the point of orientation of pores or direction of heat
flow. He also noted that there are differences up to 209% in
the conductivity of porous clay insulating brick in the direc-
tion at right angles to different faces. Russell's expression
was used, and the results obtained on a group of clay brick
showed good agreement. On the other hand, the diatoma-
ceous brick showed remarkable deviations owing to the
difference in structure and pore sizes. Barrett did not
recommend the use of Russell's expression for systems with
larger pores (‘radiation holes’) exceeding 0.3 cm. Finck®
observed conductivities twice as high in the case of fibers
oriented parallel as compared with fibers oriented perpen-
dicular to the heat flow.

4 £ : em . PES . .
(a) J.B. Austin, Factors Influencing Thermal Conductivity
0 5 oninegiiiie Materials, pp. 3-67 in Symposium on Thermal
Ins yi American Society for Testing Materials,
ladelphia, 1939. 123 pp.; Ceram. Abst 2] 45; 97
(1941). Pl « L3SLY, 20 [2 10; [4] \
Me) bo Barrett, “Heat Transfer in Refractory Insulating
. ah S: L, Fexture and Insulating Power," Trans. Brit. Ceram.
ne A 17] 230-62 (1949 ), reprinted from Brit. Ceram. Research
‘ So. Sa No. 70,1946; Ceram. Abstr., 1950, January, p. 7e.
i A i Ys Cohn, “Some Factors Influen~ing Thermal Proper-
les o inerals and Products of the Ceramic Industry,” J. Am.
Ceram. Soc., 11 [5] 296-306 (1928).
Ha i I. Green, “Influence of Texture on Transmission of
r pe : 1 hrough Firebricks,” Trans. Ceram. Soc. (Engl), 23, 253
(0 1923 1924); Ceram. Abstr.,4 [5] 134 (1925).
Br Jol Pinel, Niehunlse of Heat Flow in Fibrous Materials,”
ald aras J. esearc L, 5 [5 073 -84 ( 9: 0) > 9419 - Cer 11.
Abstr., 10 [2] 154 (1931). 15973 193057 RIP240; tan

 

 

 

pebruary 1954 (Part IT)

 

Fig. 1. Model (above) and plaster mold for preparation of samples
with cylindrical pores.

Other experimental investigations carried out in this
field*®.6 provide a confirmation of the very general con-
clusions of Eucken's and Russell's theories. On the other
side, the available data reveal the necessity of a new approach
to further variables. Most previous workers®~? found the
linear relationship between porosity and thermal conductivity
to be approached, with small pores having more effective
insulating power than larger air spacest(®) 64-4 ¢=9 at low
and at intermediate temperatures. Further analysis has not
been possible primarily because of the lack of experimental
data for well-defined and suitably controlled samples.

Il. Experimental

The experimental program consisted of preparing samples
having a well-defined systematic variation in pore size and
shape and of known "thermal conductivity and surface
emissivity. The major portion of the research was carried

out with alumina as the solid phase since 1ts conductivity 1s
well known from previous measurements in this laboratory,
its emissivity has been determined,’ and it is amenable to
specimen fabrication. Some measurements were also made

on nickel and graphite to determine the effects of varying
emissivity,

(a) p- H. Norton, “Thermal Conduetiviy of Some Refrac-
tes,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 10 [1] 30-52 (1927). .
(b) H. Salmang and H. oun “Measuring Thermal Con-
ductivity of Refractory Materials at High Temperatures,
Strechsaal, 64, 127-29, 145-48, 165-67, 187-89, 205-208 (1931). |
¢) Max Jakob, ‘Heat Transfer Through Ceramic Materials,
ram. Age, 11 [4] 121-30 (1928); Ceram. Abstr, 7 [7] 454 (102 J:
4) Henrich Herbst, “Gas Permeability, Resistance 10 £0
5 > Thermal Conductivity, Thermal Expansiet, Heat Dae
Wd Inclination to Breaking of Refractory Brick in Depend€

aro v,” Feuerungstech., 2210] 115-16 ( 1034); Ceram. Abstr.,
9]72(1935) EI

) T ; . . Diffus es

(e) A [. Green, “Comparison of Temperature Diffusivities

4% The Fireclay Refractories,

rmal Co ‘tivitie Silica and -
nductivities of Silica ai 1927); Ceram.

as. Ceram. Soc. (Engl.), 26 [3] 168-76 (1926-
0 7 15] 298 (1928). i > Oxide

Be 0. J. Whittemore, Jr Properties and Uses of § (1949)
AVY Refractories,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 32 [2] 48-00 Uv:

Thermal Conductivity, 1X

101

$ ® 9 v9 ow

 

Fig. 2. Sample with 225 cylindrical pores, 0.082 cm. in diameter.

Table Il. Samples with Cylindrical Pores

 

 

Diam, (cm.) No. of pores Porosity (%)

 

0.082 75 7.54
L082 120 11.97
.082 180 17.95
L082 225 22.4
146 16 4.91
. 146 32 9.68
146 48 14.55

146 64 19.45

 

 

Table lll. Alumina Samples with Isometric Pores

Pore diam. (cm.) Total porosity (%)

 

 

0.031 12.3
L031 23.4
031 30.0
L031 44.2
031 48.7

 

Table IV. Drilled Samples with Cylindrical Pores

 

 

 

 

 

Material Pore diam. (em.) No. of pores Porosity ( %)
Nickel 0.146 32 9.8
Nickel 146 (4 19 6
Graphite 146 32 3 8
Graphite 146 64 90

een

(2) G.T. Easter, ‘Pores in Brick,” J. Am. Ceram. Soc., 11 [10]

mad AR (102
a ole «Insulating Refractories,” Am. Refractories

Inst Tech. Bull., No. 51, 8 PP. (1934); Ceram. Abstr., 14 (3) 4

(1973), LL. Norton, Jr. “Apparatus for Measuring Thermal
C (9) © ayer Refractories,” J. An. Ceram. Soc., 25 [15] 451—
onductiviti

042). ; a
7 Li ‘New Data on Total Emissivity of Refrac-
: (a) be agerited at the Fifty-Fourth Annual Meeting, The
BO ont Dr amic Society, Pittsburgh, Pa., April 28, 1952 (Re-
merics al aN
+c Division, No. 1). Agel
fractories Norton, Refractories, 3d ed.,

hb) F. 1
oO) Hil Book Co., Inc.

A bstr., 1950, July, P- 145a.

59 (Novem

revised, p. 502. Mec-

New York, 1949. 782 pp.; Ceram.


102 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—Francl and Kingery

—
—

GRAPHITE

TOTAL NORMAL EMISSIVITY

 

0 400 800 1200 1600
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 3. Emissivity of materials studied.

(1) Sample Preparation

All samples were prepared in the shape of 1- by 1- by 1-in.
cubes. The alumina samples were prepared from Norton
Company 38X, 220 F alumina by grinding in steel mills, acid
treating to remove iron impurities introduced in milling, and
casting in plaster molds from an acid suspension as described
bv Hauth.® Cylindrical pores were selected to study the
effect of pore anisotropy according to the relations of Loeb
(Part VIII). Two series of samples were prepared with pore
diameters of 0.082 cm. and 0.146 cm. by casting around drill
rods firmly set in the mold. To insure that the suspension
penetrated into the small spaces between the rods, the mold
was placed on a vibrating table during casting. After the
initial set, the drill rods were removed, leaving uniform
parallel cylindrical pores through the piece. To prevent tear-
ing from bending or sidewise movement of the rods, cracking
from drying shrinkage about the rods, or slumping on re-
moval of the rods, the techniques of moldmaking and casting
had to be closely controlled. Photographs of a mold em-
ployed and one of the samples are shown in Figs. 1 and 2.
The samples prepared are listed in Table IT.

Samples were also prepared having isometric pores of
nearly uniform size. These were made in this laboratory
by R. L. Coble by incorporating up to 50 vol. 9 naphthalene
flakes in the casting slip. Just before use the naphthalene was
pressed through a 60-mesh screen. After casting, the samples
were dried for an extended period at 60° to 70°C. until no
naphthalene odor could be noticed. The samples were then
fired in the customary manner for 3 hours at 1830°C. After
firing, polished sections were examined which indicated that
the pores were roughly spherical or ellipsoidal in shape. The
area of pore cross sections was determined with a precision
planimeter; from these data, the mean spherical diameter was
calculated by the procedure described by Fullman.? The
samples prepared had properties as shown in Table III.

In addition to these samples of alumina, samples were pre-
pared from nickel and graphite with cylindrical pores 0.146
cm. in diameter. These were prepared by drilling the
requisite number of pores in each sample. The nickel em-
ploved was Nivac, an extremely high-purity and homogeneous
vacuum-cast material supplied by the Vacuum Metal Corp-
oration, Cambridge, Massachusetts. The graphite employed
was graphite CS, density 1.55 gm. per ecm.?, supplied by the
National Carbon Company. The samples prepared had
porosities as shown in Table IV.

s W. E. Hauth, Jr., “Slip Casting of Aluminum Oxide,” J. Am.
Ceram. Soc., 32 [12] 394-98 (1949).

9 R. I. Fullman, “Measurement of Particle Sizes in Opaque
Bodies,” J. Metals, 5, (March 1953); AIME Trans., 197,
447-52 (1953).

 

Vol. 37, No. 2

 

 
   

00

 

0 200 400 600 800

TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 4. Thermal conductivity of Al:O; sample with 48.7% porosity, iso-
metric pores. Upper curve is for dense Al,O;.

oc.” em? cm)

k (cal. sec

 

  

200 400 600 800
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 5. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; samples with isometric pores. Per-
centage porosity for each curve is as indicated.

(2) Experimental Measurements

All measurements of thermal conductivity were carried out
in the apparatus previously developed in this laboratory
(Part IV) which employs a 1-in. specimen cube and two 1-in.
cube standards. Thermocouples are located in holes in each
sample, so that interfacial thermal resistance is eliminated,
and multiple guard heaters prevent lateral flow.

For the anisotropic cylindrical pores, two measurements
are necessary to define the effects of porosity. If the pores
are set so that their axes are parallel to heat flow, the cross-
sectional pore fraction, the ratio of pore area to total area, is
uniform and equal to the pore volume fraction. If the pores
are set with their axes perpendicular to the heat flow, the
cross-sectional pore fraction will vary with the position in
the sample. For the samples tested here the maximum
cross-sectional pore fraction will be largest with the pores per-
pendicular to heat flow. For the random isotropic pores, the
cross-sectional pore fraction is independent of position or
direction and is equal to the volume pore fraction.

In addition to the geometry and number of pores and the
thermal conductivity of the solid, it is necessary to know the
total emissivity of the material for the calculation of
the effects of porosity (see Table 1). These data were
available for Al,O; samples prepared in this laboratory and
were determined by Vianey’® using Brownlow’s method
which has been described by Norton.”®® The value ranges
from 0.28 to 0.48, which is similar to most refractory oxides.
The emissivity of nickel is low, ranging from 0.07 to 0.12.10

 

10 Me fore Sieh i
Metals Reference Book, C. J. Smithells, editor. Interscience
Publishers, Inc., New York, 1940.

 

February 1954 (Part II)

 

0.04
t
ov
: MEASURED
E
0
's RUSSELL
'¢
v
r
| 0.03
S
- EUCKEN
xX
0.02

0 20 40 60
POROSITY (%)

fig. 6. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; with isometric pores at 200°C.
Solid line indicates experimental data; dashed lines, calculated from
theories as indicated.

The emissivity of graphite at elevated temperatures has been
reported by Powell and Schofield,!* but no low-temperature
data were available. Measurements were carried out by
Brownlow’s method” on the graphite used here at 500°C.
giving a value of 0.82 in good agreement with an extrapolation
of higher-temperature data. The emissivities of the materials
investigated are shown in Fig. 3.

IV. Results and Discussion

(1) Isometric Pores

Tople al data for a sample with 48.7% porosity, with
dpproximately spherical pores, are shown in Fig. 4. In
Be Same figure the thermal conductivity of dense alumina
'S indicated. In all cases the mean deviation of experi-
Penn points from the curve is 2 to 3%, and the maximum
Ea for individual points is about 10%. In Fig. 5, the
i S Ovalned for five different porosities are given for o
re range room temperature to 000°C. To i
or all ion, the individual experimental points are omitted, but

curves show the same deviations as in Fig. 4.
to > and / the thermal conductivity is pleted my
temperate. porosity for 200°C. and for 800 C. At i
Within i Eh e data can be represented up to 50% pos y
or Ry a experimental error by the theories 0
below iy L Ihe relation calculated from Guten 25
ductiviey experimental data. The relative Sans ie
SAMmples a of the conductivities of solid an P ’

 Rp/k, is plotted versus porosity 10 Fig. ©.

Be ——.

1

\

R Ww teical

Condyppr LOWell and F. H. Schofield «Thermal and Electrica’

Proc, py ities of Carbon and Graphite at High Temperattires,

dbsty : Soc. (London), 51, Part 1 [283] 153-72 (1939); (eran.
181101271 (1939).

—

Thermal Conductivity, IX

103

E RUSSELL

sec,

k (cal.

 

0 20 40 60
POROSITY (%)

Fig. 7. Thermal conductivity of ALO; with isometric pores at 800°C.
Solid line indicates experimental data; dashed lines, calculated from
theories as indicated.

0.9

08

07

MEASURED

0.6

RELATIVE CONDUCTIVITY [=]
’

EUCKEN
0.5

 

20 60

POROSITY (%)

ivi i ity for isometric
: i relative thermal conductivity with porosity
Fig. 8. Ohne dicate? experimental data; dashed lines, calculated
pores. Soli from theories as indicated.


104 Journal of The American Ceramic Society—Francl and Kingery

o
?

k (cal sed ClemZem)
o oO
° o
~o o

 

0.0I
0 200 400 600 800

TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 9. Thermal conductivity of Al.O; samples with cylindrical pores
of diameter 0.082 cm. with 11.97%-porosity cylinders parallel to
heat flow; solid is shown.

oO
Oo
no

k (cal. sec” °c”! en? cm)

 

0.01

0 200 400 600 800
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 10. Thermal conductivity of ALO; samples with cylindrical
pores of same diameter, 0.082 cm.; representative curves for
indicated porosity, from 7.54 to 22.4%, and solid.

“The relative conductivity is useful since it can be generalized
to apply to any solid material. Here too, the experimental
points fall between the values given by Loeb (Part VIII) and
by Russell,! but are considerably higher than those calculated
by Eucken.?

The experimental results for isometric pores indicate that
both the relationships of Russell and Loeb represent the
experimental data within possible error, but that the relation-
ship of Eucken gives results which are low. In general, the
Loeb equation seems to be preferable to that of Russell.

(2) Nonisometric Pores

Typical experimental data for the cylindrical pores are shown
in Fig. 9. The mean deviation of experimental points from
each curve 1s about 2 or 39,. A series of curves for different
porosities 1s shown in Fig. 10, for the temperature range room
temperature to 900°C. Data for one series of samples (0.146-
cm. pore diameter) are replotted in Figs. 11 to 13 to illustrate
the effect of porosity. For all samples the experimental data
fall between the Loeb and Russell curves and substantially
above the Eucken relationship, for pores oriented parallel to
heat flow. In addition to this orientation the sample can be
turned so that the cylindrical pore axes are perpendicular to
heat flow. In this case the Eucken® and Russell! equations
do not apply, but the Loeb equation (Part VIII) is in excel-
lent agreement with the experiment. Samples with 0.082-cm.
pore diameters gave the same results as the larger pore size at
temperatures up to about 500°C.

These results are of interest in that they illustrate strikingly
the strong dependence of thermal conductivity on pore

Vol. 37, No. 2

0.0520

"A" CHANNELS Il HEAT FLOW
"8" CHANNELS 1 HEAT FLOW

 

E
Q
id N
¥ \
o RUSSELL N
£ 0.0360
Qo
'o
wv
"w
3
=
0.0280
0.0200

0 10 20 30
PORCSITY (%)

Fig. 11. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; with cylindrical pores of diameter
0.146 cm. at 200°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data; dashed lines,
calculated from theories as indicated.

orientation. The decrease in thermal conductivity is about
doubled by orienting the pores perpendicular to the heat flow.
Finck? dealt with a similar case in an investigation of fibrous
materials in a continuous air phase system.

The close agreement of the experimental data with the
values calculated from Loeb in both orientations is con-
vincing evidence of the general applicability of these equa-
tions.

The effect of porosity in the two orientations can be corre-
lated in the same relationship by calculating the maximum
cross-sectional pore fraction in a repeating unit through the
structure. This is the ratio of the pore area to the total area
in a sample cross section containing the maximum void area.
In Fig. 14, the relative thermal conductivity is plotted against
cross-sectional pore fraction for both sizes of pores at 400°
and at 800°C. At 400°C. the two pore sizes give equivalent
results. At the higher temperature the larger pores have an
increased radiation effect, as indicated by the Loeb equation.

(3) Effects of Emissivity

To define the effects of emissivity more closely, samples
were prepared from nickel, which has a low emissivity, and
from graphite, which has a high emissivity. Alumina is
intermediate. Experimental results for nickel are shown in

Fig. 15. Experimental results for graphite are shown in
Fig. 16
g. 16.

At the higher temperatures, emissivity has a considerable
effect on conductivity of porous materials, as indicated in
Figs. 17 to 19. In Fig. 17, the relative thermal conductivities
are compared with the relation predicted by Loeb (Part VIII).
The conductivity at higher temperatures increases as 1S
predicted. When the cross-sectional pore fraction is below
about 20%, the effect is not important; but at higher porosi-
ties, the difference becomes significant. The variation is
clearly shown in Fig. 18 for both pore size and emissivity at a

- a

 

54 (Part II)

february 19

 

"A" CHANNELS || HEAT FLOW
"8" CHANNELS 1 HEAT FLOW

MEASURED "8"

0.010
0 10 20 30

POROSITY (%)

fig. 12. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; with cylindrical pores of diameter
0.146 cm. at 500°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data; dashed
lines, calculated from theories as indicated.

cross-sectional pore fraction equal to 0.50. At elevated
temperatures the effect of emissivity becomes more important,
as shown in Fig. 19. It was found that the relative conduc-
tivity increases linearly with emissivity for a given pore cross
section, as expected. The effect of emissivity becomes im-
portant only at elevated temperatures. Fora cross-sectional
pore fraction of 0.5, the effect of radiant transfer 1s only about
3% at 500°C. but increases to more than 209, at 800°C. At
higher temperatures, the authors can predict with confidence
that emissivity will become even more important.

V. Applicability of Theoretical Relations

The experimental results obtained here for various sizes,
shapes, and orientation of pores for different materials of
known solid thermal conductivity and total normal emissivity
agreed with the theoretical relations derived previously iv this
series by Loeb (Part VIII). The relationships of Russell’
gave results almost as good for isometric pores, but they are
ot applicable to anisometric pores. Experimentally, the

oeb relationships were found to hold up to cross-sectional
Pore ratios of ().5, the maximum tested. It is desirable to

‘nsider the application of these relationships to practical
problems.
By means of the equations given by Loeb (Part VIII), the
frmal conductivity of samples with a given porosity and
Pore orientation can be predicted with confidence if the solid
2 Nductivity and emissivity are known, and if the solid phase
Continuous. Continuity of the solid phase is necessary or
®¢ equations to apply, and may in general be expected for
porosities up to at least 509%. In some extraordinary systems
Jas for foam glass) it may apply to very high paopties
Te cases (as for powder compacts), 1t will not apply Si
Even porosities. For materials with low Gi ey ie
relat Materials with high emissivities up to 9 “
I takes the simple form

kp Re ky (1 — P.)

Thermal Conductivity, IX

105

a CHANNELS Il HEAT FLOW
B" CHANNELS L HEAT FLOW

MEASURED "A"

LOEB

em: 2 °c! ecm)

sec.

k (col.

MEASURED "8"

 

0 10 20 30
POROSITY (%)

Fig. 13. Thermal conductivity of Al,O; with cylindrical pores of diameter
0.146 cm. at 800°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data; dashed
lines, calculated from theories as indicated.

K
RELATIVE CONDUCTIVITY <5

           

0 | 2 3 4005

0 A 2 3 4 5 . ; ‘
CROSS-SECTIONAL PORE FRACTION

Fig. 14. Relative conductivity of cylindrical pores at 400° and at 800°C.
Solid circles, pore diameter 0.146 cm.; open circles, pore diameter,
0.082 cm.

For materials with isometric pores, the cross-sectional pore
fraction is equal to the volume pore fraction and the conduc-
tivity 18 equal in all directions. For anisometric pores
arranged, the cross-sectional pore fraction mn Ey
random plane will be equal to the volume pore fraction
For anisometric pores which are not randomly arrange : t e
cross-sectional pore fraction and the thermal conductivity
will vary in different directions. By extrusion, or po

FOCESSES, brick could be manufactured having a pradicesh e

ation of thermal conductivity along different axes. For

a en anisometric sample the cross-sectional pore fraction
a given ¢

be most easily determined by preparing polished sections
can ay

al to heat flow and microscopically determing the pore
norm

tion.! If desired, the experimental curve given in Fig. 8
15 oe used instead of the relationship above.
C

randomly


RRR

106 Journal of The American Ceramic Society— Francl and Kingery Vol. 37, No. 2

0.20 066

=
_. 0.16 > 062 GRAPHITE
§ =
oy >
€ 0.12 S 058
¥ o
© 5
7; 008 bo
@ w 054
>
S —
< 004 <
& 050

000

    
   

0 200 400 600 800
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 15. Thermal conductivity of solid nickel and samples with cylindrical
pores (0.146 cm. in diameter) as indicated.

40

cm)

30

-2

cm.

20

k(cal. sec.” °C.”

00
0 200 400 600 800

TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 16. Thermal conductivity of solid graphite and samples with cy-
lindrical pores (0.146 cm. in diameter) as indicated.

RELATIVE CONDUCTIVITY R&

 

0

A 2 3 4
CROSS-SECTIONAL PORE FRACTION

Fig. 17. Relative thermal conductivity against cross-sactional pore
fraction of nickel and graphite as calculated by Loeb's theory ond
as measured at 800°C. Solid lines indicate experimental data;
dashed lines, theoretical. Solid circles, graphite; open circles, nickel.

In addition, if the thermal conductivity of a sample with a
given porosity (and for higher temperatures, emissivity) is

   

  

0 200 S500 800 1000
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 18. Relative conductivity of various materials having a cross-sectional
pore fraction equal to 0.50.

o
o

RELATIVE CONDUCTIVITY [22]
s

o

on

 

0 .2 4 6 8 Io
EMISSIVITY

Fig. 19. Effect of emissivity on conductivity at 200°, 500°, and
800°C.

known, the true conductivity of the solid can be determined.
This is particularly valuable in correlating and comparing
the results of various investigators, and in determining the
conductivity of solids which are difficult to prepare in a dense
form. The authors will have occasion to employ this method
of calculation in a later communication (Part X).

It should be emphasized that the porosity is only one of the
major factors affecting the heat transfer. In heterogeneous
systems the thermal conductivity of a major component is
lowered not only by the presence of the air phase but also by
large or small amounts of the other solid components. In
applying these results for heterogeneous systems the actual
composition and microstructure (crystal phases, compounds,
solid solutions, glasses) must be specified. The values will
then be valid for this system without the air phase. In an
attempt to obtain a true value of thermal conductivity of a
major component from a heterogeneous system, the influence
of impurities must be taken into account. A later part of this
series will treat the influence of minor components on the
thermal conductivity of heterogeneous systems.

VI. Conclusions

(1) The Loeb equation for the effect of porosity on thermal
conductivity is confirmed experimentally for isometric and
oriented anisometric pores in materials of different thermal
conductivities and emissivities.

 

february 1954 (Part IT)

©) The thermal conductivity of bodies with random
orosity 1S decreased proportionately to the voly
fraction (or cross-sectional pore fraction).

3) The thermal conductivity of bodies with oriented
anisometric pores is decreased proportionately to the cross.

me pore

- Thermal Conductivity, X

; 107
sectional pore fraction. Orientation has a pronounced effect
on the thermal conductivity.

(4) At higher temperatures (above about 500°C.) the
emissivity and pore size become important in determining
the effect of porosity on thermal conductivity.

 

Thermal Conductivity: X Data for Several Pure Oxide
Materials Corrected to Zero Porosity

by W. D. KINGERY, J. FRANCL, R. L. COBLE, and T. VASILOS

The thermal conductivities of several oxide ce-
ramics have been measured. Data for fifteen
pure oxides of theoretical density have been cal-
culated. A table and plots of thermal conduc-
tivity from 100° to 1800°C. are included. The
conductivity of the polycrystalline oxide mate-
rials measured varies from a factor of more than
100:1 at room temperature to about 10:1 above
1000°C.

I. Introduction

REVIOUSLY in this series several experimental methods
Pha been described for determining the thermal conduc-

tivity of ceramic samples over a wide temperature range,
and experimental data have been reported for a number of
oxide materials. In addition, a theoretical and experimental
study of the effect of porosity on thermal conductivity has
been reported.

The purpose of the present communication 1s (1) to report
thermal conductivity data for a number of additional oxide
materials and (2) to correct these and previously reported
data to the values for polycrystalline samples of theoretical
density. The authors will not attempt to analyze these data
in terms of atomic or structural properties, but propose to do
this in a later communication.

Il. Experimental

(1 Measurement of Thermal Conductivity
All measurements of thermal conductivity Ww inde Wt
tquipment previously described in detail 1n this wa
Measurements for mullite, spinel, forsterite, titania, stabilize :
are onia, alumina, magnesia, berylha, thoria, zircon, zine
oXide, and electrical porcelain were made by the ellipsoida
tnvelope method (see Parts II and 11, this series). nd
ments for alumina, magnesia, beryllia, zirconia, lime, grap =
Mekelous oxide, and uranium dioxide were made Lh 5
‘Umparative linear flow apparatus (see Part IV). Moa I
tons to measure graphite and UO. in vacuo Were euiployed. 1
Bulk densities were obtained by a water-absorption metho

vere made with

<iilts obtaine
by a mercury-displacement method. Results 2 Po-
y . . ( > 3c.
Y the two methods agreed within 4+(0.01 gm. per ¢

Tosity eoretical
OSIty was determined from bulk density and the th

NSities gg given in Table 1.

Thermal conductivity at zero porosity was calculated
employing the relationship

Rm
ki = (1 — Pe)
k, = solid thermal conductivity.
kn = measured thermal conductivity.
P. = volume pore fraction.

The derivation and applicability of this equation have been
considered previously (see Parts VIII and IX of this series).

(2) Sample Fabrication
The fabrication and the properties of samples of Al;Os,

MgO, BeO, ThO,, and stabilized ZrO, have been described

previously. Other oxide specimens were fabricated by

methods similar to those used for MgO, Al,O3, and ZrO, in this
tory.

was prepared from pure fused material (Babcock &

Wilcox Company) which was ground for 24 hours in a Steel

ball mill to give a particle-size distribution with 50 wt. Jo

finer than 5 microns. Iron was removed by magnetic
separation followed by repeated leaching with hydroctionse

acid. Viscosity of the suspension showed minima in the p

ranges 2 to 4 and 10 to 12. Fired density of slip-cast samples

varied in the same manner as slip viscosity. Thenmal oe

ductivity specimens were slip cast from a slip having a p! 5

3.0 and a specific gravity of 2.1. Samples were fire i

1780°C. Chemical analysis of the fired samples was 69.0

21.9 wt. Y S10s.

A Lo aluminate spinel were rsparsd bY

Anderson by slip casting from a suspension with a oe e

ity of 2.2 and a pH of 3.0. The spinel was prepare wit

of MgO: ALO; (chemical analysis 71.9 Al,O3, 29.0

3 : 0) Thermal conductivity values are from

wt. 0 : 5 :

Seersen > Cl from Superpax (National Lead Com-
Brest Was po ‘cle size of 5 microns as received.
any) with a mean particle s a

Pico was acid-treated with 1 N HCI and shp ca

{ H. Anderson Sc.D. thesis, Massachusetts Institute of
* F ; L . peu

Technology 1952.


Journal of The American Ceramic Socielty— Kingery, Francl, Coble, and Vasilos Vol. 37, No. 2

Table I. Measured and Calculated Thermal Conductivities of Polycrystalline Oxide Materials*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 Theo- Thermal conductivity (cal. sec. “! °C. =! cm. “2 em.) at specified temp. (°C.)
Bulk retical Porosity — ————————————— A we ST
Material density density (%) 100 200 400 600 80 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800
Al20; 3.69-3.79 4.5-7.3 0.0690 0.0508 0.0300 0.0208 0.0164 0.0140 0.0126 0.0125 0.0138 (0.0173)
3.97 0 0723 .0538 .0314 0218 0172 .0147 .0132 .0131 0145 ( .0181)
BeO 2.7-2.86 4.67-9.95 .500 .398 .211 L107 .0615 .0462 .0393 .0372 0346 ( .0352)
3.01 0 + .025 L417 .222 .112 .0645 .0485 0412 .0391 0362  ( .0369)
CaO 3.03 8.75 0333 0242 .020 0181  .0174  .0170
3.32 0 .0364 .0265 .0219 .0198 .0191 .0186
Forsterite 2.22 31.1 .0088 .0074 .0059 0049 0044 .0040 0039 ~~ (.0038)
(Mg2Si04) 3.2 0 .01285 .0108 . 00856 00712 .0064 .00582 00566 (.0552)
Graphite 1.55 30.2 .298 .243 . 188 154 128 (.105) (.092)
2.22 0 .426 346 .268 .220 .182 (.149) (.131)
MgO 3.29-3.48 2.8-8.1 .0823 .0645 0377 .0263 0194 0160 .0140 .0138 0157 (.0216)
3.58 0 . 0860 0675 .0394 .0275 .0203 0167 0146 0144 0164 (.0226)
Mullite 2.79 11.4 .0129 0117 .0100 .0091 0086 .0084 .0082 (.0082)
(AlsSi20g3) 3.15 0 .0146 .0132 .0113 .0103 .00972 0095 .00926  (.00926)
Mullite 2.21 20.8 (.0097) 0086 0074 0068 .0065 0064 0064 (.0064)
(AleSi2011) 3.15 0 (.01385) .0123 .0105 0097 .0093 .00915 00915 (.00915)
NiO 5.05 25.7 .0220 0176 0127 .0100 .0082 0075
6.8 0 0296 .0237 .0171 .0136 ,0110 .0107
Spinel 3.27 7.65 (.033) .0285 .0225 0179 0147 .0128 .0120
(MgAl:04) 3.54 0 (.0357) .0308 0244 0194 .0159 .0138 .0130
UO: 8.00 26.7 (.0175) .0142 .0103 .0079 .0066 .0061
10.9 (.0234) .0190 .0138 .01055 . 00885 .00815
TiO: 4.11 3.5 (.015) 0115 .0090 .0083 0078 0076 0076
4.26 0 (.0156) .01193 00935 . 00864 0081 .00790 0079
ThO: 8.07 16.75 .0204 0168 00119 .0087 .0068 .0061 .0050 (.0049)
9.69 0 0245 .0204 0143 .0104 .00814 .0073 .00599  (.00586)
Zircon 3.69 18.6 L011 L010 .0090 0083 .0079 0076 .0074 %
(ZrSiO) 4.56 0 .0136 0124 0111 .0103 .00978 0094 00916
ZnO 3.72 34.0 (.027) 0177 L011 . 0086
5.66 0 (.0409) .0268 0167 01305
ZrOs 5.22-5.35 12.314. 4 .004 0041 .0042 .0043 .0045 0047 .0049 .0050 EF
6.1 0 00466 .00468 00490 .00501 .00525 .00547 .00571 .00583

 

 

———————————————————————————————————————————————— ————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— ee —eeeeee

0.028

0.024

 

 

   

 

E 0020
N.
¢ i
5 €
7. » ®
C0016 ® 0016
¢ >
- v
5 “
~ oo0l2 8 0012}
0.008 0.008
0004 0.004
0.000 0.000
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 0 200 400 800 800 1000 1200 1400
TEMPERATURE (*C) TEMPERATURE (*Q)
Fig. 1. Measured thermal conductivities of magnesium aluminate spinel Fig. 2. Measured thermal conductivities of nickelous oxide (upper curve)
(upper curve) and mullite of different porosities (center and lower curves). uranium dioxide (center curve), and forsterite (lower curve)
- and slip casting at a pH of 3.5 and a specific gravity of 3.5.
pH of 3.0 and a specific gravity of 2.4. Samples were fired at Samples were fired at 1700°C. in an oxidizing atmosphere
-p Or “N\ - 7 ] . . :
1550 Cc po a‘ : Samples of ZnO were prepared by calcining c.p. ZnO at
| Samples of Ii0, were prepared by calcining c.p. Ti0, at 900°C., and slip casting from a neutral suspension using
1000°C., grinding for 12 hours in a steel mill, acid leaching, Daxad No. 23 as a dispersing agent.

 

pebruary 1954 (Part II)

036
0.032
0.028

+E 0.024
Qo

-2

cm,

7. 0.020

*C

-1

 

0.016

kical. sec

0.012

0.008 O00 0

0.004
0 200 400 600 800 1000

1200 14
TEMPERATURE (°c) 400

Fig. 3. Measured thermal conductivities of calcium oxi
and zircon (lower curve).

de (upper curve)

0004

 

0.000

   

0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fi :
'9- 4. Measured thermal conductivities of zinc oxide (upper curve),

fitania (center curve), and an electrical porcelain (lower curve).

—— ee

 

es erite samples were prepared from calcined c.p. MgCO;
Sh acid. The oxides were then ground for 5 hours >
and ined mill with flint pebbles, hydrostatically Te
ons. at 1430°C. to form crystalline forsterite, 328» oo
> el analysis 59 MgO, 41 wt. 9 SiO»). The forstert *
Prepareq crushed to 20 to 100 mesh, ground for 15 SS
Specific as a casting slip in an ethanol suspension Wi
¢ gravity of 2.05. Samples were fired at 1650 C.

“ples of calcium oxide were prepared by calcining C.p-
Speci : ee 1600°C., and then hydrostatically pressing the

Mens. Samples were fired at 1900°C. Precaution

Were 5 : .
taken to prevent contact with humid air throughout

 

Thermal Conductivity, X

109

1035

  
 

  

090
E 075
Q
o
£
S 060
§ BeO
3 045
© Zn0
Sg 030
x Tho,

ois} Vo,

Uo;
000
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800

TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fi -. 1 i
Ig. 5. Thermal conductivity of polycrystalline oxides corrected to
theoretical density.

0386
032

028

  

024
E

v0
¥. 020

9 CaO
.
"5 016

3

; SPINEL
.
°
* 012

NIO
MULLITE
ZIRCON
008
Tio,
FORSTERITE
2r0, (STABILIZED)
004
000

 

0 200 200 600 800 1000 1200 1400
TEMPERATURE (°C)

Fig. 6. Thermal conductivity of polycrystalline oxides corrected to
theoretical density.

0.6

     

    

   

   

        

0.5
E
Qo
¥ 04
E
Qo
v 03
Oe GRAPHITE
:
: 02
©
oO
x
01
00 ——00 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800
TEMPERATURE (°C)
7 Thermal conductivity of polycrystalline oxides corrected to theo-
Fig. 7. retical density.


110 Journal of The American Ceramic Societ

the fabrication and testing process. (Dense fired samples
show signs of surface hydration after about two weeks of
exposure to laboratory air.)

Samples of NiO were prepared by calcining ¢.p. NiO at
1000°C., and then hydrostatically pressing the specimens.
Samples were fired at 1500°C. in an oxidizing atmosphere.

Samples of UO, were cast from a suspension prepared by
the Argonne National Laboratory. The sample was fired at
1980°C. in vacuo.

Samples of porcelain of the following composition were
prepared: flint 19.0, Oxford feldspar 37.0, Edgar plastic
kaolin 7.0, Edgar Nocarb clay 22.0, and Kentucky Old Mine
No. 4 ball clay 15.0%. These materials were ball milled for
15 hours and specimens were formed by slip casting. Samples
were fired at 1250°C. to zero apparent porosity.

Il. Results and Discussion

Experimental results for materials not reported previously
are shown in Figs. 1 to 4. The mean values measured at
various temperatures have been listed in Table I for these
materials and for those previously reported in this series.

Calculation to theoretical density is given in Table I.
These calculations were made in accordance with the results
of Loeb (Part VIII) and Francl and Kingery (Part 1X) for
the effect of porosity on thermal conductivity, and those
papers should be consulted for details. The data for thermal
conductivity of a number of zero porosity polycrystalline
oxides are shown in Figs. 5 to 7. Separate plots were nec-
essary in order to cover with satisfactory precision the range
of values found.

These results indicate that the thermal conductivity of BeO
is above any other ceramic oxide and is equivalent to graphite
and metallic conductors. Of the commonly employed oxide

y—Kingery, Francl, Coble, and Vasilos Vol. 37, No. 2

materials, Al,O; and MgO have the highest values of conduc-
tivity. Stabilized zirconia and the triaxial porcelain have the
lowest thermal conductivities.

A practical point of interest is that the thermal conduc-
tivities of all the pure oxide materials decrease markedly with
temperature, the decrease being more marked with materials
of high conductivity. At temperatures of about 1000°C. the
thermal conductivities of all these oxides except BeO vary
only by a factor of 3, whereas at room temperature the
conductivities (excluding BeO) vary by a factor of 20. Con-
sequently, any quantitative relative or absolute values of
conductivity at room temperature cannot be directly applied
to a higher temperature range. Another practical result of
this temperature variation is that for heat-flow calculations
the temperature of use must be considered. The conductivity
of alumina, for example, at 1200°C. decreased by a factor of 6
from its room-temperature value. The validity of transient
heat-flow calculations which assume a constant value for
thermal conductivity may be considerably in error for many
pure oxide materials of interest.

IV. Summary

(1) Experimental thermal conductivity data for several
polycrystalline oxide materials are reported for the tempera-
ture range 100° to 1400°C.

(2) Data for the thermal conductivity of fifteen poly-
crystalline oxides of theoretical density are calculated in the
temperature range 100° to 1400° to 1800°C.

(3) The thermal conductivity of dense pure oxides decreases
markedly with temperature.

(4) The conductivity varies from a factor of more than
100-1 at room temperature to a factor of about 10:1 at 1000°C.
and above.

Acknowledgments

The authors wish to acknowledge the helpful advice and suggestions of the following:

Parts | and Il: F. H. Norton.

Part Ill: F. H. Norton and W. D. Kingery.

Part IV: F. H. Norton, whose advice and suggestions were instrumental in developing
the equipment used in this part of the investigations and in carrying out measurements.

Part V: F. H. Norton and W. D. Kingery.

Bernard Schwartz of the Metallurgical

Project, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was responsible for the fabrication of the

beryllia specimens.

Part VII: F. H. Norton and W. D. Kingery.

Part VIII: FE. H. Norton. The research presented in this paper represents a consulting
assignment for a project initiated by Professor Norton.
Part IX: F. H. Norton, who originally suggested this investigation and contributed

much to it.

(Parts | through VII were received March 27, 1953; Parts VIII through X were received September 14, 1953.)

 

re FBT

The investigations of thermal conductivity of
issue of the Journal are part of a ». yy

Massachusetts Institute of Techn i Opa of research which was undertaken at the
progress. From its inception ie SI 22 Octohey 1549, and wiiiel ds still in
A tositic Frneorey Commons cp udy has been sponsored by the United States
The work was originated under the ey No. AT (30-1)-602 and AT (30-1)-960.
Th d fs 08 Lie Drents toe pis ro a of F i. Norton, professor of ceramics,
Kingery, assistant professor of Mini i ervision of Professor Norton and W. D.
arriad rte by nes earl a arwous parts of the investigation have been
El Core Dey ’ S15 research during their tenure as graduate students

Malcolm McQuarrie ns 2 ited |
detras in engineering Sis Se Lajpens College in June 1948 with a B.S.
Force. In June 1949 he was awarded t} d kus As Spy AY
the California Institute of Technology ae a ff a f Ci Sy
ence in ceramics by the Massachusetts Institute of ss
be 18 apres wn ceramic research en pd a a ; Se :
Massachusetts. Parts V and VII of the present s os ite thats Dro
Sr = pe Ln) of the a nti pa
in part at the Pittsburgh Meeting of The American Ceramic Society in 1952 (R
tories Division, No. 5). Ps | : i
is od Lor 90 po a30enle with the Division of I ndustrial Cooperation at

e completed the analyses and derivations given in Parts II and VIII as a
consultant to the present project. Dr. Loeb received the Ph.D. degree in chemical physics
from Harvard University in 1949, and in his present position at M.I.T. is mainly as-
sociated with the Department of Chemistry and the Digital Computer Laboratory. :

M ilton Adams prepared Part III of the present series from malerial in a thesis sub-
matted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Scienceat M.1.T..
This paper was presented in part at the Pitisburgh Meeting of The American Ceramic
Society in 1952 (Refractories Division, No.5). Dr. Adams received the B.Eng. degree
in 1948 and the M.S. degree in 1949 from the University of Toledo. He received the
Sc.D. degree from M.I.T. in 1953. At the present time he is employed in ceramic re-
search at the Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Company in Toledo.

Josef Francl received the degree of chemical engineer from the Technical University of
Brno, Czechoslovakia, in 1947. After the coup d'etat in 1948, he escaped from Czecho-
slovakia into the U.S. Zone of Germany and entered the United States in March 1950.
He received the Sc.D. degree in ceramics from the Massachusetts Institute of 1ech-
nology in 1953. Part IX of the present series was taken in part from has doctoral the-
sis, and was presented at the New York Meeting of The American Ceramic Society in
1953 (Basic Science Division, No. 20). At the present ime, Dr. Francl 1s engaged
in ceramic research at the Owens-Illinois Glass Company 1 Toledo. :

Parts IV and VI were presented in part at the New York Meeting of The American
Ceramic Society in 1953 (Basic Science Division, No. 19). : :

Part X of this series represents a compilation of data obtained over a number of
vears at M.I.T. T. Vasilos recently recesved the Sc.D. degree from M.I.T. and was
/ MLA earch al the Ford Motor Company, Dearborn, Michigan, before
engaged in ceramic researc ore : 7 hemistry from

ters » armed services. Dr. Vasilos received the B.S. degree 1m cnemisi)
entering the arme ; : 1950. R. L. Coble 1s a research assistant, Ce-
the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute in 1950. Ic. Lo. aduate study as a candidate for
ramics Division, M.1.T ., and is currently engaged in graduate 7 % 2 : a a
the Sc.D. degree. Ie received the B.S. degree in physics from Bethany leg 950.

ceramic materials reported in this special


ARE THESE PUBLICATIONS
IN YOUR LIBRARY?

ENAMEL BIBLIOGRAPHY AND ABSTRACTS, 1940-1949
Issued July 1953 $8.00

REFRACTORIES BIBLIOGRAPHY 1928-1947
Issued December 1950 $15.00

PHASE DIAGRAMS FOR CERAMISTS
Issued November 1947
Cloth-bound $7.00 Paper-bound $5.00
Supplement, December 1949, $0.50

ENAMEL BIBLIOGRAPHY AND ABSTRACTS 1928-1939
Issued September 1944 $5.00

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND ABSTRACTS OF LITERATURE
ON ENAMELS
Issued May 1929 $7.00

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF LITERATURE ON REFRACTORIES

(Including author and subject indexes to Bibliographies on Silica and
Magnesite Refractories)
Issued February 1927 $2.00.

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MAGNESITE REFRACTORIES
Issued April 1924 $2.00

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SILICA REFRACTORIES
Issued April 1924 $2.00

The American Ceramic Society
2525 North High Street Columbus 2, Ohio

 

Printed in U.S.A.

L 30 jpuinor—OL L—«£9 ‘dd ‘Z "ON ‘LE ‘'IOA

ALDNPUOY [DUWISY|—AJS1206 dIWDI9D) UDOLBWY @

DNAS


