soi >

FIREREET COMPANY, Ine.

SCANT A MONICA D4. V ISTIEOAN
S$ A NT A MON I CR, “C AIL VIFEOTRENICA

November 1, 1956 A250-5115

professor W. T. Martin
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Martin:

Along with nearly all organizations such as ours, We suffer from
a drastic shortage of competent technical people. We have found that
one of the best ways to alleviate this shortage is to expand our use of
automatic computing machines. These machines relieve our highly trained
technical personnel of many routine tasks so that they can devote thelr
+ime to creative efforts.

However, expanding the use of automatic aids has created its own
problems. The effective utilization of these automatic aids itself
demands the services of highly qualified technical people. It thus might
be argued that we have only "robbed Peter to pay Paul," but we feel that
one competent man in this activity can be of such assistance toc our tech-
nical staff that our problems can be solved with a minimum number Of

rained personnel.

 

 

Tt appears that Computing Engineering, as WC refer to this work, is
at a disadvantage in the competition for trained people 1n that it 1s sO
es. In attempting to improve

this situation, we nope +o arrange for some of our Computing Engineers to

- “
descr l DE +he

ibe the work TO appropriaie groups of college students. Please note
that this will not be a part of our effort to attract competent graduates
+o Douglas, but will be a technical talk on the applications of electronic
computing equipment.

new that few are aware of its opportuniti
1

We hope that our representatives can speak for about forty minut
a

A a
\- So
at times which would not interfere with college activities. The talks
could be tailored TO an audience, from freshmen to graduate students,

3 - -r. oS . ~~} , ~ += 1 | 1 1 mao it a 1 TM ~1 . oO ~Yy (Tr 3 » 3 ou *» ~ 3 Ll
Wl th real OY DI Cencla l ht Aa LEX es uo i Ig 2X Pays 1.CH 3 engineer 11E or app lied maci=-
ematlics.

GENERAL CELT 4 CE SSUAEN TCA MIG NCLCA, CAL UE ORIN TA


