\ \

COMPUTATION CENTER / % £/

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Quarterly Progress Report
and
Computer Time Request

Dear sir:

As a user of the Computation Center's facilities, you are asked
to file a progress report with the Center each quarter. The attached
form is meant to simplify this task and channel your efforts,

Some purposes of this report are to:

1) serve as your request form for the next quarter's
computer time,

2) allow the Center to update its operating records,

3) give the Center a clearer picture of its user's interests
and needs.

The completed form should be returned to:
pr. F. J. Corbatd, Associate Director
Computation Center, Room 26-142
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts.

A prompt return of this form will be appreciated.

71 Cusp

F. J. Corbato
Associate Director


October 6, 1961

QUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORT

In compliance with Section 1:
During this quarter the following research was accomplished:

1) Data tape writing and data preprocess has been thoroughly
checked out and placed on a production Tosessiag efficiency of
Computation Center operation plus the completeness of our program
repetoire in this area permits us to preprocess data within 48 hours
of its receipt. The automatic preclusion of fallacious a postiori
analysis in the forecasting area can be listed among they besrits
of such speed.

2) Our hypothesis concerning interarrival times has been confirmed.
There is no further work to be done here.

3) However, our hypothesis concerning order sizes was partially
rejected. Consequently, new pilot runs verifying the alternate hypothesis were
made during the last quarter ending September 30, 1961. We project that the
remaining bulk of production runs will be made in the next six weeks to
Zz months.

4) The programs pertaining to forecasting methods have been entirely
debugged in their original version and results produced. However, as is the
usual case with scientific research, our initial results have caused a
revision of our analysis. Modifications to the forecasting programs
necessitated by the above reason are currently in process. The entire
production phase of this area should fall in the coming quarter.

In conclusion, it should be stated that this project has become
larger in scope but not extensively larger - than it was envisaged one
year ago. In spite of the mild expansion we preceive to conclude the project
within the coming quarter ending December 31, 1961. A final report and a
copy of all published material concerning the results of this project
will be forwarded to you at this time.


