——-____—f

 

Dr. Grad oPa July 13) 1959

myself as chaimman, Professor Walter Freiberger of the Departe
ment of Mathematices at Brown University as seeretary, and other
members as noted in the enclosed announcement. It was agreed
that some time in the next yeay or two it would be most helpful,
particularly for the smaller newer centers, to have a confer-
ence of two or three days on problems of particular interest to

college computing centers. The discussions could focus around
four general arecast

1. Budget and administration: What are good and ba.& ways of
financing centers? What fraction of time can be "sold” and
vhat Craction should be free?

2. Computer-oriented research: What are the areas, of real
intellectual challenge, for research in the use of machines?
What are the copportunities for theses in these fields, how are
such theses to be supervised and how are degrees to be granted
cn the basls of these theses?

3. Curriculum and instruction: What sort of courses should be
offered? Should courses on machine coding be given for credit
or as short courses without credit or as parts of other appro-
priate courses? What advanced courses with real intellectual
centent, intimately involving computing machines, are being
given and in what departments?

4., Computing service to university departments: Who in the
college should be given "free time"? UWhat priority system can
be set up in case of over-demand? How does one distinguish
between freec and paying users? VWhat are appropriate forms for
interdepartmental supervisory commlttces to administer such a
sexrvice pregram?

It was felt that a confercnece on these four subjects,
to be held some time next spring or summer, which would result
in a report cmbodying suggestionsg and matual recmente on these
matters, would be of very great help to many rectors of college
computlng centers, particularly those just beginning or planning
to begin. It would gecm to me that NSF would also be intorested
in the results of such a conference. Certainly the question of
how college computing centers it into thelr academic structure
and how they can help more completely ¢to cducate scientists and
engineers 1s something which has been a subject of discussion in
various parts of NSF to my knowledge. My question to you, there-
fore, i8 an exploratory onc: Is NSF interested in such a confere
ence? Is it intercsted encugh to finance it in part or in whole?
There are at present 85 college computing centers, acecording to
the latest list of Professor Reeves of Ohio State. We had thought