y '.0

7.0

8.0

704 Training Courxrse

Conference with New Products Division

At s meoting with Messrs, D. Pendery and H. Heilsing, a number of the
704 alterations, modifications, etc., were discussed. In particular, the recent
1ist of RP; items were evaluated in light of the IEM-MIT mode of operation in
the Computation Center.

‘.

It was suggested that a copy of the MIT computer efforts should be

given to the group in order to provide them with certain writien materiel -

regarding pest MIT programming efforts in this area. After this manual has

been studied, a later meeting will be arranged to discuss additional requirements
on the ''future generation machines".

New York Data Processing Centexr 3

At a conference with Mr. Bruce Oldfield, Manager, Data Processing Center,
he was asked to provide a list of the RPQ items, additional festures, alterations,
etc., currently available on the New York and Poughkeepsie machines. In this
manneyr, the MIT 704 would provide complete conpatibility to tha two installations.

oldfield was also asked to provide us with the list of —contml panels
and other equipment which are currently in- use at the other two installations --
again attempting to insure compatibility.

A number of meetinge were held with various membeirs of the IEBEd ;
Educational Department to obtain any information which could be used in the 704
course which is to be offered by HIT on August 20-31. It was finally agreed that
this matter could be handled by a separate meeting at MIT on Friday, August 27,
which would be attended by Messrs. E. Kopley sy Se Best G. T. Hunter, F. M. Verzuh,
and other MIT 704 staff. : : _ o

Conclugion

Generally speaking, this day-long session of meetings was highly
satisfactory. In certain cases, however, it was gpparent that insufficient
factuel data wae available and steps were taken to obtain immediate information.
Specifically, Labate would obtain additional noise measurements at New York on
Saturday, July 28. Simllavly, Eopley, et al, will meet at MIT on Friday,

July 27, to help formulate the program for the 704 course. Finally, information
concerned with real estate -~ furniiure, equipment requiremenis, etc., will

be compiled during the next two weeks in ordex that orders may be pl&ced,
purchases made, etc., during the current fiscal perxriod. If this is done aow,
equipment will avrive on schedule and (we hope) at the completion of the
building on January 1, 1857, A

¥. M. Verzuh
July 26,1956

-

e