1. Three new four-she“ units were constructed which increased
mmamityummeyassJ

a. The design and construction of two sntoeatio curve followers
sas coepleted. and these were need as input units on the MM.3

3. Il‘he design and construction 0! the Vector unit was oeepleted.
This unit increased the functional capabilities of the m.’

Additional details of. the work pen-lend during this period ender
Air rerce Contract are given in these-ary Reports which were “kitted
es pert of un- werh.4' .

'rhe otticial terninstion date of the Air Force Contract see
Septuher 30. 1950. Borrower, it hecaae apparent prior to July 1, 1950 that
the operation of the Diiierential Malnu- would again be in tinenclel dit-
iloelty. Consequently. the Institute decided to close down the Differential
Myer es oi Jane 30, 1950. Again the opereting staff was released, and
the I. I. neperhent per-nently severed all responsibility for the Diiierentlal
Anelner. li‘he sechine was about to be scrapped when Dr. nape, Director of the
lnstrnentetion Laboratory expressed interest in its possible operation. ' Ihen
he learned that it only cont epproxinately $25,000 a year to operate the
facility. he indinted that the Instrumentation 'Lehorntory would east-e full
responsibility for ell RDA operation as soon as the existing Air Force Contract
was oupleted.

At this tine. it was realised that the principal once-meted work on
the MIC contract was confined to the operational start end not to the am
lechlne Shop. Consequently, the responsibilities of the RDA Shop were trans—
ferred to the lnetrnlentstion Laboratory on Jilly 1, 1.950.6 In this eanner,
the Laboratory was able to utilise the services of the 3 Instr-went Makers
and all of the shop facilities for the production oi gyro and other delicate
min for the Laboratory.

Burning the twining three nonths of the mac contract, naaetly July-
Bept-her. 1950, the operating stud! of the RDA we engaged in the conpletlon
or work requested by wright Field, the preparation oi iinnl technical reports
required mder this contract, and the capletion of outstanding Center of
Analysis ooeeitnents requiring the one of. the RDA. Hence, it was not- until
October 1, 1950 that the Instrumentation Laboratory ensued the responsibility
of the operation of the entire RDA facility.

At this time. E‘. 2’1. Vermin agreed to ouparviao the operation or the RDA
for the Instrumentation Laboratory. Since the Electrical Engineering Depart-
nent stat! assigned to this project had Msrenaaigned to other projects within
the I. B. Department, effective July 1, 1950, (Professor 3. ll. Csldsell. J.

I. Bee. and H. P. Grossiaon). it again because necessary to hire a new operating
etui. No new eon (Messrs. I. Hotter and R. Fredrickson) were hired and
trained in the techniques of the RDA operation. and in several nonthn they
were eble to effectively utilise the RDA for the solution of Instr-mutation
Laboratory problems.

 

l. Pleaeo refer to the Bibliography for the List of References.