(0

Minutes of the Fourth Meeting
of the
Committee on neckline det'nods of Computation
December 13, 1950

gamma Regent! G. 8. Brown 13. Feshbach Z. Xopel C. Lin
P. IL. Morse’and E. Beissner ’ ’

Kopal listed the courses given in the Electrical Engineering
De ertment in this general subject. There are four courses, 6.531
- .5345 inclusive, which Kopal gives. these cover mainly the
fundamentals of Numerical Analysis with a certain amount of
laboratory work to develop facility in the use of desk machines.
Kopal feels that these courses represent a bare minimum of train-
ing to get a person started in thefield, end that it would be

desirable to have further more-advanced courses if we wish to ex-

pand our graduate training in this field.

‘ Another four courses given in the Electrical Engineering
Department are: 6.535, given by Welchmen, on coding for digital
machines; 6.536, given by Caldwell, on analogue machines; 6.5381,
given by Verzuh, on the design of machine components; and 6.56,
given by‘ Guillemin, on mathematical circuit theory, which con-
tains some aspects of the design of machine components. In eddio
tion, there is course 1.154, ﬂathemetical Laboratory, given in the
Mathematics Department, which is quite unconnected with these
other courses. The general feeling of the Committee was that
considerable discussion will be required to decide What further
courses should be suggested, but that eventually further strength
would be needed in a more-advanced course, or courses.

Professor Brown arrived at this time, and the discussion
turned to the questions of the graduate students considered last
time. He reports that Professor Thomas is in charge of prepara-
tion of the written examination for the Electrical Engineering
Department for February. Professor Brown will suggest to Pro-
fessor Thomas that he get in touch with Feshbac‘n, Lin, Morse,
and heissner with regard to collection of questions for the
sgeoial examination in February for Booton and Carr-us. Ko a1
w 11 talk to 300th and Cerrus to let them know the genera sub~
Ject matter of the special examination. Professor Brown will
discuss the other cases mentioned in the minutes of the last
meeting with the graduate committee of the Electrical Engineering
Department this Thursday and will report been on the other ques-
tions mentioned in the last minutes.


Minutes of the Fourth ﬂeeting of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation -2-

The case of Verzuh was then discussed. Professor Brown sug-
gests that the Committee consider what sort of preliminary exami-
nation would be appropriate for Verzuh, and whether additional
course work. should be advised before he takes this examination.
It was agreed that Feshbach, Repel and Reissner will meet with
Verzuh some time before next Wednesday, will talk. over his back-
ground and his plans for research, and, on the basis of this

conference, will We recommemations to the Committee next week
s3 to Verzuh's future course. '

The next meeting 01' the Committee will be at 9:30 on Wednes-
day, December 20, in Room 6-109.

W¥K

Chairman


