TT I IE EI CA Se.

~~

August 11, 19861

Prstfsr

Dre Po. YM. Morse
Boom G-10¥

Dear Dr. Forse:

I am writing you prior to leaving on my vacation. Durimg the
next week, I will be attending a conference on computation at Endicott,
How York, end will be giving a paper there on friday. The {ollowing
weeks I shall be enjoying & much-needed rest. Before lesving, however,
I thought that T should drop you e& brief note describing the sctivities
of the personnel who ere with us on this training program.

As you know, I have three of the research assistants hers; usmely,
¥iss Altman, Nr. Corbato and Wr. Temkin, and they have meade very good prog-
ress up to this time. Tho general plan has been to give each of them rather
voluminous notes on the principles of operetion of the machines. These notes
were carefully studied by them for approximately a week during which actual
use of the machines wes made, and then each was given e particular problem
to assist on. For example, Corbato, who was the first ome to jein the group,
started out by becoming familiar with the work we are doling on the solution
of simultaneous eguations, inversion of metrices, etc. and he assisted on
the problem in which we are inverting & Z4 x 24 matrix. Shortly after that,
we converted the existing techniques for solution on the new 604 Llectronie
Caloulator, end he has since become quite {emiliar with the preparation of
instructions for this mschine.

1 have taken the liberty of informing these pecple that you will
probably held a semipar this fall, as we did last year, in whioh esch of
them will he expected to contribute SSBpENIRE #ith this view in mind, I
have glven each a research assigement. Opecificelly, Corbato hes been given
the problem of formulating an IBY method of solving crystal structure computa=-
tions. We have for 2 number of yesrs at the Institute been carrying on IBM
work of this type lor various people in the Geology and Electrical Engineering
Departments. AY the present time, we are doing work for a Dr. Abrahams, who
is at WIT on e fellowship of some sort. Corbateo has done & nice Job of formu-
lating the $04 approach to this problem, and T have requested that he prepare
a complete writeup of this work for possible presentation at sn seminar - -
pending your epprovel of course. In addition, he has been able to assist
with the work that we are doing for Professor Slater on the Hehrbdinger
problem, the detalls of which you srs familiar with,

Hiss Altman has been given a research assignment dealing with the
evaluation of cheracterisiic numbers of matrices using the IPE approach.
After much research and formulstion, we are now mechanizing the iterative
method of solution of such problems. The details of this work will awsit
further progress.


Dre Peo i. Horse page 2 August 11, 18861

Temkin has been essisling in several computational problems
that are currently being conducted for the Department of Fhysics sad the
Depertment of Aeromautics.

I think it is falr to ssy that each has learned & considerable
amount im the time that they have been here and ure now becoming quite
useful to the group. Eimultaneougly, they are now able to stert some
fundamental research ou this equipment.

I also wish to inform you that ¥r. Corbato plans to lesve oan
a veation to the west coast on August 17th and will return sometime in
September. The exact date of return depends upon your wishes. I have
asked him to report to you regarding this matter and I merely wish to in-
form you thet he hes put in an sdequate amount of time here to warrsut
sn full month's vacation (he has put in en appreciable amount of overtime).
I did want To be sure that his return dete is consistent with whatever
plans you mey have for the group &t the beglming of the fell Term.

I have several ideas regarding eadéditiomal research projects
which these people might earry on as well as sore ideas regerding the
rotational system, ete. Upon my return from vacation, I would like very
much to discuss these with you and alee become femiliar with your plans
regarding the training program for the coming your.

Very truly yours,

“+ Me Varsuh
V:T%


