PROPOSAL FOR NSF GRANT FOR SUPPORT OF RESEARCH
AT THE M.I.T. COMPUTATION CENTER INTO METHODS FOR
MAKING HIGH-SPEED DIGITAL COMPUTERS EASIER TO USE

BY THE OCCASIONAL USER

 

Statement of the Problem - lLarge, electronic digital computers
have great potentialities ror advancing research in the many areas
which reguire a great deal of drudge calculation, but up to now
their potential capabilities have been hampered Dy & "mismateh”
between machine and possible user. Special inpub equipment is not®
yet designed to allow masses of experimental data to be fed directly
tc the machine; special output equipment 1is needed in order to display
resulés in compact and easily understandable form; and the present

. ¢ode of instructions to the machine the "machine langauge" is not

eagy to learn or to use. ,
The basic difficulty is that electronic computers are extremely

complex pieces of equipment and a great deal of study will be

required before we can understand 1its behavior well encugh o be

able to control it effortlessly and flexibly. At present one who

wishes to use a large computer often has to spend three to five months

developing, encoding and testing a program ©o instruct the machine how

to perform the necessary millions of operations which, at the end, the
computer will carry through in a few hours. True, these five months
of preparation plus the few hours of actual computation may be much
shorter than the several years required to obtain the same results by
using a desk computer, nevertheless it is obviously desirable ¥o
devise procedures which will shorten this preparation time; even at
the expense of additional machine time.

Program for Research on Machine Capabilities - In order to
learn how ©TO make digital computers easier to use one must have a
machine of large capacity, a large supply of possible computations
to be done, drawn from a wide varlety of scientific fields, plus a
staff which thoroughly understands the machine behavior and is
interested in working with the prospective users in order to simplify
methods of use., With this combination of equipment and staff it
should be poassible, in a few years, to work out special operating
programs, additional input and output equipment and other techniques
whieh will considerably reduce the time and effort required to get
a problem solved by the machine,

The M.I.T. Computation Center - The one place in the United
States where this combination oi machine, variety of problems and
staff already exists is at M.I.T. This past year IBM has installed
a TO4, of the most up-to-date capacity for the use of the college
and universities of New England. M.I.T. has contributed most of the