DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
: OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
WASHINGTON 25. D. C. IN up“ REFER 'ro

0NR:[.30:FJW:11

Ser .
18619

 

Professor P. M. Morse -. M“;
Department of Physics

Mass. Institute of Technology

Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

Ever since our conference early in May, the problems of ONR's Whirlwind
Program, as they emerged at that time, have been very much on my mind. By
now, a number of ideas are beginning to crystallize which I should like to
set down in order to get your reaction and comments.

In the first place, I should like to recommend a drastic reduction, put into
effect in the course of the next few months, as regards charges to our con-
tract for assistance and consultation furnished to current and prospective
users of the machine. A fraction of a single person's time, and perhaps
that even distributed over several people, should be enough. To an
imaginative young scientist with original ideas in his own field of interest,
-e.nd it is only this type of person which our contract should preeminently
serve to support, -a sizeable amount of such guidance and consulting work
must be rather deadening. Presumably MIT's academic budget could be tapped,
beginning as of this fall, to defray the cost of giving the periodic short
wson programming and coding if past experience has shown it to be
particularly helpful and effective. Beyond this, the user, especially if
engaged in academic rather than assigned research, might well be left to do
most of the work himself, —making use of established regular courses and of
the available literature and manuals. It is probably true that he would then
have to spend somewhat longer on preparing his problem, partly by having to
learn more about machine operation, partly by wasting more time in debugging
his program. I think it would be unfortunate to consider this a reduction of
efficiency in the use of research personnel, such a concept of efficiency
being really not appropriate to an academic institution. The recommended
arrangement might also have a beneficial effect as regards machine accessibil-
ity, favoring those with really consmning interests in the field over those
with the big, so—called urgent problems.

Hand in hand with this reduction in the help, extended to machine users as
part of the ONE program, I should like to recommend that charges be made for
the use of the machine on problems arising from projects which MIT is
undertaking mainly at the convenience of industrial concerns or Government
agencies. I think that the Committee on Machine Computations should be in a
position to decide, in the case of problems having their origin in sponsored
research, when to recommend. that such a charge be levied and when not.
Large—scale machines on other campuses are earning annually from $330,000 to
more than $50,000 in this fashion. These funds can then be used to hire