Extension of 113! 929140

Past 7
Enclosure B, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
e.g., several single-accumlator computers with con-non monument!
the behavior of a computer with multiple aewmlators. Some of

these properties can .be simulate on a 01! by utilisation of
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence convero

gence criteria for teminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration.

Facilities;

 

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type 701‘ Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following mhine complement:
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing 15000
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpha-
betic printer, and punched caﬁ recorder as well as the 3 off-line
magnetic-tape-contmlled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled caﬁ
punch, and punched card-to—magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 701} there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type no Accounting Hachine. The aggregate

machine rental, in excess or 50,000 per month, will be donated
by IBM.

The Type 7% EDP)! unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since. the m installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment.

Personnel 9 Supervison and Administrative Personnel Associated
with the Ego ects

Princi a1 Investi ator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director 01' the amputatIon Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Blah differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon 1930, "Vibration
and Soun " {1936f "ﬁethods of Operations Research' (with o. E.
Kimball) 1950, 'Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 1957,
and about a hundred Journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further biographic details

see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project.