amining data from the specific research studies that
were discussed—as distinguished from discussing these
studies in a general way for the substantive and metho-
dological lessons they might teach. In only one or two
instances did working relations among a pair or triplet
of members mature to the point where they plunged
into a cooperative research undertaking before the end
of the institute.

One reason why the institute was engaged less in
doing research and more in discussing it than we had
expected derived from the diversity of the group.
Every member wanted a broader picture of the area of
organizational research, and most of them thought that
the brief period of the institute was better spent in ob-
taining a survey of things they did not know about, than
in delving intensively into things with which they al-
ready had considerable familiarity. As a result, sub-
groups that were established for the study of particular
topics tended to turn themselves into committees of
the whole, and most members spent most of their days
in discussions and lectures.

Typically, four one and one-half hour seminars were
scheduled each day and were attended, on the average,
by three quarters of the group. During the first week
these seminars were devoted largely to discussion of a
manuscript, a ‘‘propositional inventory” of organiza-
tion theory and an analysis of the existing literature,
which had recently been completed by March and
Simon. This discussion proved to be exceedingly useful
in providing a common definition of the area of the
group’s interest, and some common vocabulary for com-
municating about it—including a dictionary of terms
that appear to be peculiar to the Carnegie Institute of
Technology dialect.

In subsequent weeks subgroups with varying lengths
of life took responsibility for organizing series of ses-
sions around broad topics. In one week, for example,
one subgroup discussed conflict phenomena, including
game theory and bargaining; another, the study of in-
fluence; a third, communication processes in laboratory
situations; a fourth, the design of field studies; a
fifth, study of the administration of research; a sixth
worked on the simulation of human problem-solving
behavior with computers; a seventh analyzed data from

the RAND Systems Research Laboratory; and an eighth
was devoted to talks on mathematical models of organi-
zational behavior. If this bill of fare seems dizzying in
its variety, it seemed so, too, to the participants. They
never succeeded, however, in curbing their own curiosi-
ties to the point where they were willing to omit any
major topics from the agenda.

As may be inferred from the above list, the group
sessions ranged from discussions on the organization
theory manuscript, the research projects introduced by
the visiting staff, and research that had been done by
participants; through lectures, principally in the sessions
on mathematical models; to work sessions in which the
group attempted to write a computer program to simu-
late a small-group discussion, planned research on
creativity in industrial research, and combined data
from two independent studies in a joint manuscript.

ASSESSMENT

Since the institute undertook to produce no group
product, I can report here neither a set of “findings”
nor a set of “recommendations.” Like good social
scientists, we ended the institute with a session devoted
to evaluation, and the participants filled out question-
naires. Most of my observations here are based on the
information obtained in these ways—not too much
filtered, I hope, by my own biases or by the natural
courtesy of the participants in bidding their hosts
goodbye.

If subjective feelings are admissible evidence, the in-
stitute proved for most participants both enjoyable and
profitable. They reported that its main impact had been
in giving them a wide survey of research on organization
theory, and also an intensive look at some part of that
work, in particular, laboratory experimentation and
computer simulation of organizational behavior. They
reported some frustration at the fact that the institute
never reached the point of actually doing research, and
expressed strong resolutions that they were going to ap-
ply in their own work some of the concepts and methods
to which they had been exposed. The real assessment,
of course, belongs to the future when these applications
will have been made.