104 J. H. GIESE AND H. COHN [Vol. XI, No. 1

The initial values of A and A’ depend, of course, on the original velocity and orientation
of L.
The prototype planes through the origin satisfy

ui(pz; = 0. (3.8)

Join the velocity field (3.5), (3.8) to uniform flows at both ends. Let s be any streamline
not on (3.1) which does not intersect the envelope of the prototype planes, defined by

z; =mp), nni=nu’=0 nn =1. (3.9)

Such streamlines exist if (3.1) and (3.9) do not intersect. As the second wall of the trough,
also composed of plane and conical segments, choose the cone through s with vertex P.
A special example of this type of flow can easily be derived from a Prandtl-Meyer flow.
Retain as one side of the trough the plane walls of the original boundary, and use a
conical stream sheet for the other wall.

4. A conical simple wave. Insert a half plane into a uniform supersonic flow at a
moderate angle of attack, and make the angle between the leading edge and the un-
disturbed velocity greater than the Mach angle. On one side there will be a swept Prandtl-
Meyer flow around the leading edge. On the other there will be an attached plane shock
wave behind which there will be uniform flow (supersonic if the angle of attack is not
too large) parallel to the half plane. Throughout the entire flow the component of velocity
parallel to the leading edge is constant. Introduce a coordinate system with origin on the
leading edge, z-axis parallel to the undisturbed velocity, yz-plane parallel to the uniform
flow behind the shock, and hence normal to the shock. Discard that part of the flow on
the side of the yz-plane that contains the downstream half of the leading edge. Reflect
the remainder with respect to the yz-plane. So far the boundary, shown in Fig. 1 together

  
   
 
  

Undisturbed

e

Velocity

|
EOinque Plane
I Shock

      
  

Figure | Shock and Tentative Boundary

with the shock, consists of a dihedral angle with congruent sectors removed from each
face. Since the two halves of the shock are coplanar, the uniform flows on the compression