-h .

Jenuary 31, 1958

DSR-#634
Contract NSori-60, Task Order I 465312

Amendment No. 12 ' |

(11/14/50) It is the desire of the Covermment and the Contractor Ghat additionsl
research on an electronic digitel computer and componeat research,
and the aspplication of the computer to military and scientific problems
be performed. To accomplish this, there are hereby provided an ex-
tenslon in the peried of performance of Task Order I under Contract
Worl-t0 and an incresse in the egtimated cost thereof.

Amm?-ﬂb NOe l:)

(6/28/51) It ie the desire of the Goverument and the Contractor thet additional
resegrch in applied wathematics utilizing fecilities of Contractor's

Center for Machline Computation, and the application o the facilities

to militaxy end scientific problems, be performed. To accomplish this,
there are hereby provided o restatement of the work to be performed,
an extension in the period of performance and an increase in the
estimated cost of Task Order I under Comtract NSori-60.

3. On and after 1 July 1951, section (A) shall read as follows:

“(A) The Contractor shall furnish the necessery persomnel and facilities
for and, in accordance with any instructions issued by the Technical
Officer oz his suthorized represeuntative, shall conduct a coordinated

regearch program in gpplied mathematics utulizing facilities in the
Cente*' for Machine Computation, including the WHIRIWIND Computer,
which ghall include but not necessarily be limited to the fellmr.lny

(1) ressearch in methods of mumerical snalysis and the formulation of
gelentific problems for maecline solution, together with the training
of personnel in these methods;

(2) swpport of the scientific and engineering spplications group pre-

vicusly assoclated with Project WHIRIWIND sc as to made the WHIRLWIND

Computer useful and avallable for the gbove research, including e |
continuation of the construction and improvement of the WHIRLWIND Computer; and

(3) en investigation of digitalcomputing machine components."

Amendment No. 1% (Ref, DIC 6909)

(6/28/51) It is the desire of the Govermment end the Contractor that the scope
of resecarch in gpplied mathematics wutiliting facilities in Contractor's
Center for Machine Computation including the WHIRIWIND computer being
performed under Tosk Order I of Contract NSori-60 be expanded, such
expansion to involve theoretical studies and experimental resecarch and
developwent in comnection with the application of the dlgital computer
in an eir defense system. To accomplish such additional research there
are hereby provided an expansion in the scope of work and an increase
iu the estimated cost of said Task Order.

3. effective 1 July 1951, esection (A) shall include the following
subparagrsphs