It might be worth while to let your
Department 's Graduate Registration Officer
know about this man. -

July 20, 1960

Mr. Carl Opaskar
3406 Hollister Read
Cleveland Heights 18, Ohlo

Dear Mr. Opaskar:

We have an inecreasing amount of research going on in
the fields of programming research, machine translation, automata
theory, and the like, in which a graduate atudent can work and
obtailn a doctor's degree. Graduate students who have reglstered
in mathematics, physics or electrical englineering, for example,
can concentrate in computer sclence, either taking the regular
doctor's examinations for thelr department and doing a thesis in
computer selence, or else arranging to take a speclal doctor's
examination and obtaining a degree without specification of
department. , 73

Professor MeCarthy, who edited the book on automata
theory, is in the Department of Electrical Engineering here.
Professor MeCarthy, in the Department of Mathematlcs, is also
interested in this general field, which includes problems of
getting a machine to prove mathematlcal theorems. There 1s also
a projeet working on language translation under Dr. ¥Yngve. We
also have a group working on the very difficul? programuing
problems arising when one wishes to time-share & blg machine
among a large mumber of simultaneous users.

We are at present changing our installatlon from that
of 2 7O to that of a 709 and hope in the next year or so to put
in a 7090. Research Assistantships, awarded by the Computation
Center, are avallable to students, registered in any department,
who wish to speeialize in the field of computer sclence.

If you are interested in coming here the year after
next, I suggest you make out the enclosed application blank and
send it, plus the letters of recommendation, To me with an indica-
tion as to which department you might wish to reglster in. I will
then see what chances you may have and will have time ©oO write you
pefore the rush begins. The competition for admlsslon to the
Graduate School in any department here is quite stlff, of course.

Sincerely,

Philip M. Morse, Director
PMM: 1wh
¢ce: Prof. McCarthy
Prof . Minsky