March 20, 1959

Professor Alan J. Perlis, Director
Computation Center

Carnegie Institute of Technology
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania

Dear Professor Perlis:

As I told you in my telephone conversation with you, I have made plans in my
budget for the Summer Conference on Digital Computers from August 17-28
for $1,000 for a series of lectures to be given by A. P. Ershov of the
Computation Center of the Soviet Academy of Sciences.

I have, however, withheld making this invitation in keeping with a suggestion
of Mr. Frederick T. Merrill, Director of the East-West Contacts Staff of

the State Department that it might interfere with a suggested exchange that
was being proposed in January by Dr. Morton Astrahan. I feel, however, that
the latter exchange appears to have not been successful.

My purpose, as yours, is to give American scientists a chance to meet Soviet
computer personnel, hear them lecture, and exchange legitimate scientific
information. We proceeded on this basis last year and proved to be, I think,
successful. You and I recognize that Ershov is one of the up-and-coming men
in the Soviet Union. He will learn a great deal from us if he comes here. On
the other hand, our meetings with him will also allow us to keep up with open
work in the Soviet Union that otherwise we might never have heard of.

I am very interested in a quid-pro-quo exchange; but the purpose of these
exchanges as I see them is not to make vast tours of the countryside but to
have personal meetings, study, and lectures given If Ershov and Professor
Kantorovich, whom I hope also to invite, can come, I am sure that we can get
agreement on a reciprocal visit, either before or after All we need is
someone from the U.S.A. willing to go who is worthy of sending to lecture in
the Soviet Union, either in Russian or English.

I feel that our success with the first exchange, by all external evaluations
certainly, indicate that we have hit on a method and procedure for continuing
them. I feel the State Department should recognize that we have been able to


Professor A. J. Perlis March 20, 1959
Page Two

take advantage of a situation that @bviously exists to develop such an exchange.
This opening should not be plugged because of lack of flexibility. I would
appreciate any cooperation you could give in helping us with the invitition
(and return visit of Americans) to these two eminent Soviet computer
mathematicians (and perhaps one or two others) to lecture here and meet
American scientists. Iam sending a copy of this letter to Mr. Merrill at
the State Department with a request to begin direct negotiations with the
Computation Center of the Soviet Academy and Academicians Lebedev and
Dorodnitsin.

Sincerely yours,

1

(ry
/ C (Lf

[John W. Carr, III, Director
Research Computation Center

cc: Mr. Frederick T. Merrill

Professor Philip Morse


