COMPUTATIO!! CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Tachnology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts Bulletin No, 17
March 31, 1961
BULLETIN

Fortran/FAP Monitor System Changes

I. ‘Recent extensive IBM changes to the Fortran/FAP Monitor System
were described in a letter from the Operations Staff dated March 20, 1951
which has been sent to all active programmers. The changes affect:

1. order of the run decks (symbolic now must precede all binary),

2, size of programs (program, excluding COMMON must not overlap
loader and its tables),

3. assignment of CHAIN tapes (A4 is now primary, Bl is no longer
used),

4, control cards LABEL, LIST8 etc. described in the latest manual
(C23-C054~2) which unfortunately, is not presently available.

These changes will be instituted April 3, 1231. If you have any
questions, you should see the consultants before submitting your runs.

II. In addition to these changes, the Center has made several
modifications over the past two or three months, The following is
a complete list of all such changes since the last Bulletin.

Date Change

January 17, 1961 BSS control records modified to print amount
of Common data overlap. Statistics informa-
tion added for use of the Computation Center.

Monitor Scan and BSS have been modified so
that a Monitor comment may appear just before
the DATA card,

January 30, 1961 Modifications to Monitor record to print
pertinent time and date after each compilation.

February 8, 1961 Operation Table in FAP extended to include
those instructions related to the direct-data
device. (Write Direct Data - WDDX, Read
Direct Data - RDDX, Store Sense Lines = SSL,
Present Sense Lines = PSL.)


Page 2
Date Change
February 8, 1961 Fortran modified so that any dash (8-4

punches) will be treated internally as a
minus (11 punch). No diagnostics will
occur. (Fortran programmers are still
warned not to use the 0-4 character because
this is a source language incompatability.)

Monitor now prints the time before and
after an assembly or compilation.

Linking Segment System

The use of the Linking Segment System within the FMS system as
described in CC~173 will soon become avallable, At first special
arrangements may be necessary, If interested see the consultants.

Subroutine Errors

If you feel that you've found an error in any subroutine or sub-
program supplied you by the Center, we would appreciate your describin
in writing the symptoms, and any diagnosis you might have. This Eg
document might then be distributed to SHARE through the Secretary's
Letters and will certainly be placed in our files. Of course, our
consultants and staff will help you trace an error if you Rood help.

Mail Order Service

All returns in mail-order service are now sent out by first-class
rather than fourth-class mail. In addition, these returns contain a
stamped post card which we ask you to return as feedback on the system
We feel these changes have improved this service,

Procedures Handbook

The first revision to the Center's Procedures Handbook will be

started soon. If you are aware of any errors or omissions, would you
please notify

Mr. J. R. Steinberg, Room 26-143

immediately, if not sooner,


Page 3

Computation Center lMemoranda

The following memoranda of general interest are available in
Room 25-142,

CC~143=1 An Edit Program for BCD Tapes, January 24, 1961 = A
program for producing & new or up-to-date BCD tape fiom the original
BCD tape and a deck of ALTER cards. A recoumeunded procedure for

altering and maintaining a large program or programming system in
symbolic form.

such as the size of matrices, etc., may be specified at loading time
by the user by the use of Hollerith definition cards.

February 27, 1961 = Solve the matrix equation es = B for tae ne matrix X
and compute the determinant of A. See Subprogram Changes this Bulletin,

Subprogram Changes

The following modifications to subprograms on the library tape
have been made,

F2PM = Now disables all traps and has been corrected so that NAME
(ENTIRE) requests work properly. In addition, the output routines of
F2PM were modified speeding them up by about 40%.

(I1#S) and (STH) =~ Changes in these basic FMS output routines have
speeded them up by approximately 40%.

XSIMEQ and XDETR = Modified to set floating point underflows to
zero, New version also takes less space than old,

Open Files

When using the open files of subprogram decks in the Processing

Room, check the tab card preceding each subprogram set for the number
of cards you should have,

A list of the subprograms on the FMS library tape, the number of
locations they require and the subprograms in their transfer vector has
been compiled and is available in the Consulting Room, 26-153,


Page 4

All programming aids, manuals, coding pads, etc. are now being
kept in Room 26~153, the Consulting Room, Please sign for any material

you take,
Subprograms Added to the FMS Library Tape
There are two recent additions to the FMS library. They are:

1) ST@MAP - STOrage MAP, Prints a storage map of the loaded
program,

2) WRBCD - WRite BCD, Writes one BCD character on the CRT.
One-page writeups for both these routines are available in the

Consulting Room, 26~153,

Scope Programs

There is at present a large variety of subprograms for utilizing
the CRT in various stoges of testing end debugging. As they become

available, they will be anncunced, probably here. One available now
is:

SCID, SCIDl1 = Produces FLIP card like (stencil) image of up to
six BCD characters on the scope, Use to identify your frames, Write=-
up available in Room 26-153,

Classes

We request that those instructors who plan to bring their class
to the Center on a Saturday please notify

Mr, Michael Solomita, Manager of Machine Operations
Room 26-152, telephone UNiversity 4,- 6900, X 4113

as soon in advance as possible so that conflicts can be minimized,


