% ol

Name 2nd Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation
and utilization-- nvestigation into

the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research: including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, processing, analysis

and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applicatiocns of machine techniques to problems 1n science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment durlng the fall of
1650 to determine whether further support is advisable,

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organizing what
should be one of the mos ruitful cencers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM s contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equlpped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing scme of the
staff from its departments of mathematles, electrical englineerlng,
physics, and industrilal management. The machine willl be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names ) . -

In addition, the Center will be available, up tO 25 hours
a week, on the same basls, To other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indlicated thelr interest in participating and
have appointed faculty wmembers to be thelr Institutional Representa-
tive (1ist of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives wlll coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of thelr institutlon.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilitles, there 1is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in sclence, englineering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely wlth persons from the
other colleges, will help coordlnate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of tThelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specifilc applications of machine