i

PROPOSAL FOR RESEARCH ON DIGITAL COMPUTER OPERATION 1”
Hap’ UTILIZATION AT THE ‘NEW MIT COMPUTATION CENTER /

. : Ne is "a 4 &

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centérs for research related to the use of electronic computers
in ‘this country. IBM is contributing one of its TOM machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment. =
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of thé staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine willl be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and students
for non-classified and non-routine research, MIT research in the
Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine Soupeation®
Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours a
week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix 4). These representatives willl coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.

IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all

phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,


«2

 

A, business. A ain ‘research group, ehatoed, by faculty meubers,
SAA als t

Lg

pik : Tha } ae (v1 col bo ct fd

‘graduate Yotudente cof MITy: ‘working closely with persons from

 

the other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center
and will carry on research of their own in machine logic, in tech-
niques of machine computation, and in specific applications of
machine operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus
appreciably broadening the range of applicability of computers in
the physical and social sclences and in engineering.

It is appropriate for government agencies to help support the’
research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of *Rowledgs of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
fields of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
will be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senlor staff for such a research group is already
assembled at the Institute. Part of it is the group which developed
Whirlwind I programming; others are in various departments of the
Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the participating
colleges would Join it for a semester or a year, on leave from their
institution, to work full-time at the Center. The fames of some ef
the staffs. and thelr sxperience;-are listed dn Aprentift —. .

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. We believe that a contribution of
about $100,000 a year will support the activities of the central


“Be
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the re-
search carried on at the Computation Center by: students ans Blatt
of MIT and the participating colleges. We list in anit, vos
of the specific research projects we are prepared Sod toth es
Other projects will develop naturally from these and from the
problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center

The project would not start at full strength. The 704 will
not be installed untll January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installation. We estimate that a total budget of $60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, $90,000 for 1957-58 and $100,000

DAs ane contin Rea. Xan Willy 2 Qn Aa,
for 1958-59. , At re beginning of 1959 the program should be re-
evaluated to determine needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and division
chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial support from
both agencies, an equal share from each. We believe the work can
be divided so that separate contracts can be written. Some of the
proposed tasks would be different, though some of the broader
fields of investigation would overlap. We would hope that we could
put out a combined progress report. In some published papers,
credit could be given to one organization alone; in others, credit

would go to both. Bookkeeping would be somewhat more complicated,


he
but since most of the .eXxpense would be. for or salaries, 1 1ittle for pin
permanent equipment, this could be done, It probably would be i
necessary to have the ‘usual government overhead for both contracts. Sl
| The proposed budget asked of ‘each agency for 1956-57 1s siven Sn
inippeRa tii The corresponding amounts for. the following two 8

years would be $45,000 for 1957-58 and #50, 000 for 1956-59, ¢ as
indicated ‘above. vot FELL


