In connection with the type 704 I.B.M. electronic computer installation at the
M.L.T. Computation Center for the use of universities and colleges in New England
the International Business Machines Corporation has established a number o,f
RESEARCH ASSISTANTSHIPS for graduate students in the physical and social
sciences, engineering, or business. These Assistantships are awarded by the Compu-
tation Center to graduate students in good standing in a physical or social science,
engineering, or business department of a participating college or university, from
those applicants recommended by their schools. The stipend will depend on the
usual custom of the applicant’s department; payments will be made by the student’s
department or school, money being transferred from the International Business
Machines Corporation to the department or school for this purpose.

These Research Assistants are expected to spend part of their time at the M.LT.
Computation Center, learning the techniques of machine coding and operation and
helping to utilize the 704 in the solution of scientific, engineering, and business
problems, including problems of interest to their own departments. Thus they
serve as technical coordinators between the Computation Center and the research
and educational interests of their departments and institutions with respect to
high-speed computation. So that this experience can be given to more people,
the jobs should rotate; it is expected that an Assistantship will not usually be
held by any individual for longer than two years.

There are also a limited number of RESEARCH ASSOCIATESHIPS open to junior
faculty members of the participating institutions. These anticipate research and
liaison in the development of machine applications at a higher level of responsi-
bility and competence than is expected of the Research Assistant. In some of these
cases a fraction of the salary of the faculty member will be refunded to his insti-
tution in order to free the Associate’s time for work at the Computation Center.
It is expected that salary refunds for Associateships will not usually be made for
any individual for longer than three years.

APPLICATION FORMS and LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION FORMS for [.B.M.
Research Assistantships and Associateships may be obtained from your Institutional
or Departmental Representative, whose name appears on the cover of this an-
nouncement. The completed Application Form should be returned to your repre-
sentative. In addition, you should submit to your Department Head two Letter
of Recommendation Forms. Your Department Head (or faculty members designated
by him) will complete the Letter of Recommendation Forms and will send them to
your Institutional or Departmental Representative, who will then forward all these
forms to the Computation Center. Applications for the coming academic year
should reach the M.I.T. Computation Center before March 1.

Decisions on awards will be made before April 15 by the Computation Center,
after consultation with the inter-university advisory committee.

Further information may be obtained from Professor Philip M. Morse, Director of
the M.I.T. Computation Center, Room 26-142. Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Cambridge 39, or from your Institutional or Departmental Representative.