COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Minutes of the Ninth Meeting
Academic Yesr '51-'52

Persons Present: S. H. Caldwell, J. W. Forrester,
F., B. Hildebrand, C. Lin, P, M. Morse, and
E. Naissner,

The actilon on applications for next yéar's assistant-
shipis was reviewed. DlMorse reported that Ruth Seiwatz and R. D,
Haun had turned down offers. The Committee approved appointing
John D. Little. (Since the Committee Mesting, lLeo Sartori has
been awarded a National Seilence Foundation fellowship for next
year and is conséequently relinguishing his half-time assistant-
ship.) Lin reported that H. Glantz had iccepted , which com-
pleted the Mathematics recommendations fr next year for the
présent. The sppointments made and accepted for next year
are consequently: Chemical Engineering - J. F, 0'Donnell;
Mathematies - N. J. Hicks, P. Fox, A. Ralston, H. Glantz,
R. L. Martino, and D, G. Aronson: Physics - S, I. Rubinow,
F. Jd. Corbato, M. C. lewstein, A. Temkin, A. Duren, M. Roten-
berg, J. L. Uretsky, I'. Cambelic, and J. D. Little.

Three temporary appointments for the summer were
discussed and approved. Professor Henvy Wallman, now in sweden,
wishes to return to M.I.T. for three months this summer for work
partly with the Electrical Engineering Department and partly with
the Mathematics Department. It was suggested and approved by the
Committee that the Machine Project contribute toward his salary
for the summer and request “rofessor Wsllimsn to work with the
project for part of his time here, thus giving the project the
benefit of his experience in this field. The two other appoint-
ments were concerned with liaison between the Whirlwind group
and workers in other machine projects. Dr. David Wheeler has
been at the University of Illinois, connected with their com-
puter project. It was suggested and approved that Pr. Wheeler
be invited here for the summer to lsarn what we are doing and
to tell us his experience. A similar lisiscn wich the asctive
computer group in Cambridge, Engiand, will be achieved by ap-
polnting Mr. Eric Mutech, first assistant tc Professor Wilkes
of Cambridge Univerzity, for thrae montacs this sunmer.

Professor Hildebrend reported on a proposed course
on Numerical Analysiz to be given next year in the fall term.
Suggested catalogue desceription for this one-term course,
entitled "Numericsl Analysis I%, is appended. The Committee
agreed that the subject matier described was appropriate for
such a course and that a course of this sort was needed.

P

|

a

L_‘t