Another possible modification of tThe 704 showe promise of
increasing the versatility of the machine in a number of aspects.
The basic modification is a set of connections directly to the arith-
metic unit, via appropriate buffer circuits, so that the core memory
and the internal operation of the machine can be controlled "from
outeide”. The combination of this capability with the display
possibilities of the cathode-ray output tube make possible a variety
of new capabilities.

For example, the machine could then be programmed to display
on the scope a graph of the value of any function of two variables
x and v along any line in the (x,y) plene. By means of the external
control the position and orientation of the line could be changed at
w111l and the graph shown on the scope would change accordingly, Thus
enabling the features of the +two-dimensional surface to be explored
at will. In fact, tThe program could be extended to enable the observer
to see the intersection of any surface in three dimensions with any
plane, and to change position and orientation of the plane sc as ©o
explore the surface. This could also be extended TO wore dimensions.
Minimal contours and geodesics could be determined experimentally, SO
fo speal. :

0f still greater promise, a glass plate on which are drawn
1etters or figures can be placed in front of the cathode ray screen,
the cathode beam may be programmed to sweep the area (like a TV scope
and a photo-cell could be arranged to 'report back"” to the machine
memory (through the control 1llnk deseribed above) which parts of the
plate are covered with ink. This, of course, 1is the firat step to be
taken in "“teaching the machine to resd". With such equipment the
machine could be programmed to recognize patterns, reproduce graphs
and, eventually, to reed and recognize numbers or letters.

At present the Center has no technicians who can congtruct
axiliary equipment of the sort describad here, and hat 20 funds for
purchasing the necessary parts. A relatively small outlay in the
next few years would enable us to inerease the flexibility and
capability of the mechine enormcusly. It will not be necessary to
set up a separate shop; other Institute shop faclillties can be used
¢ we have the perscnnel to do the worik.

Personnel - The present staff of the Center can direct this
program and carry out some phases, 1f tThey can be relieved of other
duties which they are 2t present paid to do. Additional budget would
enable part or all of the time of some of these men to be devoted to
the proposed programj other service and consulting duties they now
nave could be carried out by additional men who could be hired for
that purpose.