MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

DIVISION OF SPONSORED RESEARCH
CAMBRIDGE 39, MASS.

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING D.S.R. CONTRACTS
W

The following procedures should be followed for a research program
which is to be covered by a D.S.R. contract:

1. Preliminary negotiations mey be carried on between a Faculty
menber and & sponsor, but no proposals or commitments should
h m. e S ) S — -

2. A proposal by & Faculty member for D.S.R. contract resecarch
vith either govermment or lndustry smst first be epproved by
the Head of the Depextment concerned, who satisfies himself
thet (a) the project is appropriste for the Dspartwent to
undertake as a part of its edncationm.ana.resea.rchmm;
(b) senior staff aye availsble and willing 4o supervise the
research; (c) adequate space and facilities are availeble.
Proposals should include a budget based cn advice from the
D.S.R. office.

3. After departmental approval, the propcsal should be submitted
Yo the sppropriate Dean for endorscwent. The Deen will also
determine the eppropriateness of the project in relation to
The entire Institute progranm of resesrch.

If the proposal has an annual budget exceeding $35,000, the Dean's
approvel is gulded by the decision of the Comuitiee on Spousored Reseerch
acting within policies determined by the Executive Committee of the
Corporation. This Committee on Sponsored Resserch may also be asked to
&pprove projects affecting interests outside of the School in which the
proposal originates.

Project Supervisors must plen in edvance in order to allow sufficient
time for adwinistrative review of all proposals.

L. After administretive approval, as cutlined under item 3, the
proposal is sent by the Dzan to the D.8.R. office. All contracts
are prepared by the D.S.R. and signed by an offical of the
Institute approved by the Executive Commitise of the Corporation.
When negotiations have been capleted, the D.S.R. office will
notify the Dean, Department Head, and the Project sSupervisor.

2. Contract renewals or extensions involving additional funds
also must be zpproved by the procedure cutlined above.