Thus far, management education and
management practice have been com-
partmentalized into such classic
subdivisions as finance, marketing, pro-
duction, and accounting. However, the
major problems of the industrial manager
arise not so much from the separate
components of the company as from how
these interact to produce instability in
prices, production, employment, and
profits. Building on the development of
electronic computers, on military advances
in understanding decision-making and in
using simulation to solve complex sys-
tems, and-on twenty years of research-in
feedback control systems, we may now
develop new ways to analyze the indus-
trial enterprise. Management is on the
verge of a major breakthrough in under-
standing how industrial company success
depends on the interaction between
flows of information (including policies
and decisions), materials, money, man-
power, and capital equipment. To help
provide a basis from which to understand
the forces causing industrial fluctuation,
growth, stability, and decline, the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology
School of Industrial Management will
offer a two-week Special Summer
Program on Industrial Dynamics from
Monday, August 17, through Friday,
August 28, 1959.

 

Outline of Program

This Special Summer Program will
describe new methods of analyzing how
organizational structure, policies, decision
criteria, information distortion, and time
lags in information and material flow
may affect the course of industrial
growth, cause fluctuation in sales,
accentuate seasonal tendencies, and
amplify external economic conditions.
Models of industrial company operation
will be formulated for digital computer
solution.

This Special Summer Program results

—————————from-three years-of research-and grad—$325 due a

uate teaching in the dynamics of eco-
nomic systems, company functions, and
corporate policies, and in programming
computers for industrial-dynamic analy-
ses. For a more complete description of
this approach and its results, see "“Indus-
trial Dynamics—A Major Breakthrough
for Decision-Makers” by Professor Jay
W. Forrester in the July-August, 1958,
issue of The Harvard Business Review:.

This will be

to method, r
vey course. |
executive, tc
standing to |
approach for
managemen
managemen
find that the
for further w
preparation f
approach to

Tuition for tt

of admission
offered. Exer
12 and 2 to

The Program
number of p:
have a wide
with the prol
whole and tt
industrial fur
neering, proc
finance. Pref
who have ha
ferential equ
digital compi
tical or educ:
back control
show industr
extent of trai
computation,

General Information

Admission

In order to maintain highest standards, the enroll-
ment in each Special Summer Program is limited
according to the facilities and staff which are
available. If a Program is not oversubscribed, appli-
cations for it will be considered up to two weeks
before it begins. However, early application is
strongly advised. Application forms are available
from the Director of the Summer Session, M.I.T.

The Institute reserves the right to select those appli-
cants whose qualifications and experience suggest
that they will receive the most benefit from the
Program for which they are applying. Neither admis-
sion nor dormitory reservations are transferable
except by specific Summer Session Office authoriza-
tion, and then only when evidence of the qualifi-

— e __cations of the proposed substitute has been filed

in advance.

A limited number of Special Summer Program
Scholarships are available to defray in part the
Program tuition of members of teaching staffs (rank
of instructor or higher) of other educational
institutions. Requests for such scholarships should
accompany applications for admission.

Payments

Applicants whose admission has been approved

will be notified as early as possible and will receive
Bursar's Remittance and Registration Cards. Both
cards. together with full payment for tuition and
housing in check, draft, or money order made payable
to W. A. Hokanson, Bursar, should be returned
immediately to the Office of the Summer Session,
Room 7-103, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts; they must be
received one week before the opening of the Pro-
gram. The amounts of tuition and room rent will be
stated in the notification of admission; both may

be included in one remittance, and both must be

paid in full before the opening session of a Program.
No bills are sent.