January 21, 1960
Pos- s Prof.. .R. R, Shrocl/
From: S. M, Simpson, Jr
Subj: Recommendations concerning the position to be taken by

The Department of Geology and Geophysics vis-a-vis
the M.I.T, Computation Center

The M,I.T. Computation Center has provided, and undoubtedly
will continue to provide, extremely useful services to our
Department. If the Center had unlimited computational facility
there would be no need to formalize any particular position
with respect to it. Since, however, we recognize the inadeguacy
of The Center wlth respect to our needs as evidenced by our
efforts to date In acqulring a2 computational facility of our
own, there 1s perhaps some value in clarifying our attitude
towards the Center, :

There are four basic facts pertinent to the problem,

1. The need of the Earth Sciences for computation is
almost entirely for research purposes, I am intending
to document this by & paper summarizing these applications,

2. The Computation Center has 8 raison d'etre in which
research applications rank very low, A January 4, 1960
memorandum from the Center establishes an A,B,C, problem
classification in which research uses disappear into
category C as "other applications”.

3. The Computational Center has, and may very well continue
to have, & monopoly on the computational facilitles
at M.I,T.

4, Demand for machine time has essentially reached the
saturation point and undoubtedly wlill continue to rise
rapidly.

Because of tThese facts I believe the ideal goal which the
Earth Sciences should continue to work for is a high speed
computational facility of its own, speclally adapted to our
research problems and To our data processing needs, As an inter-
mediate goal I believe we should seek a medium sSpeed machine to
bridge The gap between desk calculators and the high speed devices.

The success of these efforts is rather unpredictable and
consequently we shall be relying on the services of the computational
center for some time., Durdng this period we should do what we can
to make the Center of maximum utility to us. This should tske
two forms: attempting to iInfluence Computational Center policy
in accordance with our needs; and support of their expansion plans
to The extent that 1¢¥ will not Jeopardize our own computer facllity
goals.