NS F
—

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
: Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation
2 and Utilization--Investigation into

the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; including studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, investigation of the possibilities of the complete
mechanization of the sequence of recording, prccessing, analysis

and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine techniques to problems ln science,
engineering, and administration as will clarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1050 to determine whether further support 1s advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organlzing what
should be one of the mos ruitful centers for research related to
the use of electronic computers in this country. IBM 1s contributing
one of its 704 machines, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxiliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the bullding, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT is contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physics, and industrial management. The machine willl be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
23 institutions have indicated their interest In participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of thelr institution.
IBM 1s providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facllities, there is an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in sclence, engineering,
and business. A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
will carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of machine computation, and in specific applications of machine


~2-

operation to experimental and theoretical problems, thus appreciably
broadening the range of applicability of computers in the physical
and soclal sciences and in engineering.

It 1s appropriate for government agencies to help support
the research of this central research group. The group's work will,
in part, provide an expanding basis of knowledge of numerical
analysis and programming techniques, which can be used by the other
participants at the Center and will, in part, break ground in new
flelds of mathematical logic and methods of data processing which
wlll be needed in the application of digital computers to new tasks.

Most of the senior staff for such a research group is
already assembled at the Institute. Part of it 18 the group which
developed Whirlwind 1 programming: others are in various departments
of the Institute. From time to time, some of the staff of the
participating colleges would join it for a semester or a year, on
leave from their institution, to work full-time at the Center,

IBM and the Institute will contribute about a half million
dollars a year to provide the equipment, building, maintenance, and
operating staff of the Center. le believe that a contribution of
about 100,000 a year will support the activities of the central
research group, which will energize and take the lead in the re-
search carried on at the Computation Center by students and staff
of MIT and the participating colleges. Ve 1ist later ‘in this
proposal some of the specific research projects we are prepared to
start on. Other projects will develop naturally from these and
from the problems encountered by the other workers at the Computation
Center.

The project would not start at full strength. The 70% will
not be installed until January or February 1957, though analytic
work can be started before the machine is installed. The present
Whirlwind computing research group can be supported by the present
ONR contract until December 1956, but a few new staff members must
be brought in in September in order to get ready for the new machine
installatlon. We estimate that a total budget of 60,000 would
suffice for the next academic year, $90,000 for 1957-58 and $100,000
for 1958-59. Details are given later in this proposal. At the
beginning of 1959 the program should be re-evaluated to determine
needs beyond that time.

After conversations with the scientific directors and
division chiefs of ONR and NSF, we are requesting financial support
from both agencies, an 2qual share from each. We believe the work
can be divided so that separate contracts can be written. Some of
the proposed tasks culd be different, though some of the broader
Yields of Investig Cion would overlap. Ve would hope that we could


=H

put out a combined progress report. In some published papers,
credit could be given to one organization alone; in others, credit
would go to both. Bookkeeping would be somewhat more complicated,
but since most of the expense would be for salaries, little for
permanent equipment, this could be done. It probably would be
necessary to have the usual government overhead for both contracts.

The proposed budget asked of each agency for 1956-57 is
given below. The corresponding amounts for the following two years
would be g45,000 for 1957-58 and $50,000 for 1958-59, as indicated
above,

Proposed Research; Possible Initial Directions of Investigation:

1. Investigation of Structure and Syntax of input
languages; the possibilities of coding directly in mathematical,
logical or business language.

2. Development of routines capable of translating from
algebraic notation to computer code and vice versa, including
possibly automatic selection of numerical techniques and automatic
error analysis. S

3. Development cf numerical analytic techniques particu-
larly suitable for use by digital computers; such as more general
expansions, truncated Chebyshev polynomials sums for simulating
standard functions by a common block of instructions but small
separate blocks of coefficients and cycle counters and methods of
automatic. determination of best grid spacing, by trial plus
Richardson extrapolation or cother means. :

i, Investigation of Monte Carlo techniques for large
problems,

5. Extension and/or improvement of present techniques
for communication between machine and operator and for the more
flexible control of machine operation, including possible improve-
ments in input-output equipment.


o_o

6. Experimental analysis and control using data
Transmitted directly between computer and experiment.

T. Investigation of microprogramming and other methods
for increasing the flexibility of computer design. The possibility
of inclusion of a very flexible control unit in a large-scale
computer which would permit ready alteration of an order code.

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers, including the possibility of cycles different -
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
e.g. several single-accumulator computers with common memory and
the behavior of a computer with multiple accumulators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a 704 by utilization of addi-
tional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear
problems, estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence
convergence criteria for terminating iteration, or switching to a
different iteration.


He

Facilities: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TOU
ectronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
»000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate

Nahas rental, in excess of g50,000 per month, will be donated by

~ The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, techniques, programs, and =
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

Att ———EE——STSEEEES.TTSEeee eee ie ar... . r,s

Personnel: Superviso and Administrative Personnel Associated with
the Project

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the ries Center. He has been in contact with

computing problems during his career in theoretical physics since
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the {first Bush
differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his
Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physica" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about a hundred journal articles, many of which give re-
sults obtained from machine computation. For further biographic
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at MIT
since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1640. He
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers”
(1949), "Methods of Applied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis" (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research Journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who will head the programming research


lo

group in the new Computation Center. He obtained his B.S. in
Electrical Engineering at Michigan, spent four years doing graduate
work in Mathematics at Purdue and is, at present, finishing his
doctor's thesis in Mathematics. He has had extensive experience

in the use of analogue computers, with conventional IBM equipment
and with Whirlwind I. His salary will be charged to the Project.

Frank M. Verzuh, who will be assistant director for
operations of the new Center, will also assist the Project. As
Director of Statistical Services at MIT since 1946, he has been
connected with the operation of MIT computational work since 1840.
In this capacity he has had considerable experience with the
utilizetion of various analogue computing equipment--differential
analyzers, etc., as well as a complete line of digital machines
ranging from the IBM Type 601 through the Type 704. He received
a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Denver in 1940, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT
in 1946, and a Sc.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from MIT in
1952. None of his salary will be charged to the Project.

In addition, the members of the MIT Machine Computation
Committee and of the Computation Center's Advisory Committee on
the cooperative program of the Center (see Appendix A) will be
available for advice and cooperation, From time to time, 1f one
of them can supervise a part of the Project, part of his salary may
be charged to the Project.

FULT ITD ————EIGETD WANA AR GNI WEY W——

These will include some former members of the Whirlwind
programming research group, such as Frank Helwlg and Sheldon Best,
and others. Some of the best of the IBM research assistants at the
Center will be taken on the Project, for appropriate periods, at
full time, after they have finished their graduate work and relinquished
their assistantshlps.


«7

Budget for 1956-1957

(ONR and NSF combined, 1/2 to be charged to each)

Salaries
Fractions of Salaries of Senior Scientists

Principal Investigator (8 per cent of
$12,500)

Other Faculty Members
(1/3 of 29,000 ang 1/3 of 87,500)

Salaries of Full-time Starr

3 Senior Investigators (at 27,500)

2 Juniop Investigators (at £6,000)

1 Secretary-Typist (at 3,000)

1 Technician (computer, Programmer)

Total Salary

Overhead (see note at end of budget)
Permanent Equipment

?

{desk Computers, Special input equipment,
ete.)

Expendable Equipment
Travel

Publication Costs

Total Yearly Budget
{See note on next pag

 

g 2,000

2,500

22,500
12,000
3,000
5,000
#50, 000
20,000

6, 000
1,000
2,000

21,000
$80, 000

e)


<3.

Since the staff wi
being transferred from other projects between July and December
395°: expenditures for the first year 1956-1957 will be about
3/% of the above yearly estimate, $60,000.

One half of this contributed by NSF 30,000
Requested for year beginning July 1, 1956.

11 be acquired in 1956, some of them

Note on Overhead: The suggested overhead is larger than most NSF
grants. ~ In the present case, however, the research is intimately
dependent on the functioning of a large computing center, most of

the support of which will be borne by other sources. It 1s necessary
and appropriate that NSF contribute, to some extent to the operation
of the Center, the services of which this Project will use continually,
There is no simple procedure for itemizing this cost as a direct
charge, so 1t is included as an increase in the usual overhead.


APPENDIX A

MEMBERSHIP OF M.I.T. MACHINE COMPUTATION COMMITTEE

Prof. Philip M. Morse, Chairman
Prof. Samuel H. Caldwell

Prof. Herman Feshbach

Dr. Jay W. Forrester

Prof’. Francis B. Hildebrand
Prof. Chia-Chiao Lin

Prof. James B. Reswick

Physics

Electrical Engineering
Physics

Electrical Engineering
Mathematics
Mathematics

Mechanical Engineering

PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITIES AND INSTITUTE REPRESENTATIVES

Bates College, Prof. Karl S.
Bennington College,

Boaton College, Rev.
Boston University, Dean
Bowdoin College, Prof
Brandeis University,

Brown University, Prof. William Prager,
Dartmouth College, Prof. John McCarthy,
Harvard University,

Middlebury College,

Northeastern Univers
Tufts
Univ,
Unive.

Woodcock,
President Frederick

University, Dean Leonard C. Mead,

Head, Department of

William G. Guindon,

Prof. Guy H. Orcutt,
Dean John G. Bowker,
1ty, Prof. Martin W.

of Connecticut, Prof. Ralph J. Kochenberger, Dept
of Maine, Dean Ashley S. Campbell,

Physics
Burkhardt
Head, Department of Physics

Duncan E. Macdonald, Graduate School
» Reinhard L. Korgen, Dept. of Mathematics
Prof. David Falkoff,

Dept. of Physics

Chairman, Physical Sciences Coun,

Dept. of Math. and Astronomy
Dept.
Prof. of Mathematics
Essigmann, Head, Dept. of E.E.
Graduate School |

. Of Engineering

College of Technology

Eng.

Univ. of Mass., Prof. John H. Karlson, Dept. of Elec.

Univ. of N. H., Prof. Robert B. Davis, Dept. of Mathematics

Univ. of BE . a] SENATE SLES hen Bo tala TRS
Univ. of Vermont, Prof. Ivan R. Hershner, Chalrman, Dept. of Math.

Wellesley College,

Williams College, Prof.
Worcester Polytechnic Inst
Yale University, Prof. A.

Donald E. Richmond,
ey Prof. Richard N
J. J. van Woerkum,

Prof. Janet Guernsey, Dept. of Physics
Wesleyan University, Prof. Hing Tong, Dept

. Of Mathematics
Chairman, Dept. of Math.
. Cobb, Dept. of Math.
Dept. of Astronomy

rey he di, bp? J hac. for,


