D=

at work on the desi@n and programming required to provide a 7090
with 10 to 30 such "substation consoles" of various effective speeds
and capacities, which can be placed at appropriate places around MIT,
some perhaps in classrooms. The ultimate goal is to make the fastest
and most sophisticated computer as accessible and convenient to a
person working with it as a dial telephone is. This development will
‘not only open up new research areas, as indicated later, but also
will substantially simplify and expedite the process of producing

and debugging new programs. We believe 2all large machines will
eventually use time-sharing techniques in order to achieve theilr
ultimate capabllities; thus the research now begun at the Center
will be of general benefit to the development of the computer field.

Machine-guided Education. Computers can, of course, aid in
grading examinations, scheduling classrooms and students and do
other clerical tasks incidental to large classes. But computers
also can be programmed to carry out some of the detalled gquestion-
and-answer interchange which occurs in recitation sections. The
Center staff is now working with the Language Departwment at MIT
to program the TO0I to guide a student through some of the phases
of learning a new language, and are discussing the possibilities
of training students in the details of mathematical manipulation by
machine., Here the machine would pose questions for the student to
answer and, on the basis of the answers, would go on to other
questions, as in a recitation section. To avoid intolerable con-
gestion at the main input console (and also waste of computer time),
several students must be able to work with the machine simultaneously,
sharing machine time with regular computation. Therefore further
development of this research will shortly require a flexibility the
704 lacks but the 7090 does possess. Potentially, the use of com-
puters will help to solve the problem of giving individvalized
training in the sciences at all levels, without excessive demands
on the time of able teachers.

Machine-scientist 000§erat1ve Regearch §ngergx)a in

addition vo the examples Just mentioned, there are many other research
programs which can only progress effectively if the machine is

abhle to carry out calculations on immedlate demand and display the
result or feed it back immediatvely into the experiment, so the
experiment or the scientist can go on to the next step and request

the next computation in turn. On the 704 this would require the
exclusive use of the machine, though only a fraction of the TO4

speed would be used; obvicusly again, time-sharing techniques are
needed.

These, and many other programs now in progress, such as the
character-recognition studies, the research on economic forecasting
and on cperational behavior using large-scale simulation techniques,