Why the Institutes of Calvin? Not only is this perhaps the
chief Protestant work in the shaping of modern Christian thought;
it is also a faithful if selective compend of Scriptural, Patristic,
and Scholastic tradition as well. Thus it is a logical starting point
in a fresh assessment of the whole of Christian thought. Calvin's
Latinity spans the Latinity of the Christian era, and his Christian
humanism embraces both the Greek and Roman past, A Concor-
dance to the Institutes will lead not only to a completer understand-
ing of Calvin and the Calvinist tradition, but it will also help to un-
cover the various substrata of the Reformation itself., Coupled
with concordances to his tracts, commentaries, letters, and pos-
sibly sermons--to be compiled subsequently-=-such an instrument
will be of immense value,

The concrete notion of a Calvin Concordance actually grew
out of conversations between Professor Otto Weber of the University
of Goettingen and the present writer in 1963. It is actually a first
step in the preparation of a definitive Commentary on Calvin's In-
stitutes, a project long dreamed of by both scholars and now ha:;pily
to be the object of their collaboration. The usefulness of the Con-
cordance in making the Commentary will be obvious to all.

I1

Upon his return to the United States, the present writer be-
gan to study the feasibility of preparing, by computer, a concordance
to the Institutes. The area of Hartford, Connecticut, is particularly
rich in computer installations, both in universities and in business
firms. Besides considerable correspondence, there has been con-
sultation with Robert Singleton, Director of Projects for the College
of Quantitative Studies at Wesleyan University; with Professor W,
Nelson Francis and collaborators in the American English Syntax
Project at Brown University; with Philip Chase of the Buxton Leather
Co.; and with Russell Leinbach, Vice President in charge of data pro-
cessing at the Travelers Insurance Company. Through the good
offices of Mr. Leinbach and of Dr. Thomas Malone, Mr. Leon W.
Case III of the Travelers has agreed to collaborate with the initiator
as computer specialist for the project. It is from these preliminary
studies that the present paper has been written.

The application of the electronic computer to the immediate
task is essentially simple. The enormous bulk of the Institutes