~

~

OFFICE OF THE PROVOST

/ MIAMI UNIVERSITY Oxrorp, OHIO

 

August 14, 1962

Dr. Philip M. Morse

Massachusetts Institute of
Technology

77 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Dr, Morse,

Miami University is planning to institute an undergraduate
lrogram in systems analysis as a part of our regular offering in the
School of Applied Science. We had hoped to launch the program this
autumn, but various complications have delayed us until the present
moment with the result that it is probably too late. We are pre-
pared, therefore, to wait untl the fall of 1963 if necessary.

We are seeking a man to teach introductory four-hour courses
in data processing and computing analysis and to plan the remainder
of the four-year program. The right person could expect to head up
the project, although we expect to bring in additional staff later on
which might include a director, if it should be indicated. I am en-
closing a copy of the job description.

We would be very much indebted to you if you would suggest
names of persons who might qualify for the position we have available.

With many thanks for your courtesy,
Sincerely yours,

Charles R, Wilson
hbt Provost

Enclosure


INIVERSITY OPPORTUNITY

Miami University is seeking a faculty member to organize a prospective
undergraduate degree program in Systems Analysis in the School of Applied
Science, Candidate should have PhD or equivalent with both teaching experience,
and practical experience in data processing and computers, Appointment as
Associate Professor involves teaching introductory two semester courses
entitled "Introduction to Data Processing" and "Computing Analysis”: planning
advanced courses in Systems Design, Numerical Analysis, Simulation and Model
Building, Advanced Data Processing Application, etc.; and public relations
with business organizations and public schools, Salary - $9,000 to $10,000
for nine wontis, plus possibility of additional $2,000 to $3,000 for summer
school teaching or ample time for private consulting work. Generous fringe
benefit program including membership in Ohio State Retirement System, group
insurance, Miami, a coeducational state university, has a campus enrolil-
ment of 8,000 students, The village of Oxford has a population of 3,000 and
is located 35 miles from Cincinnati and SO miles from Dayton,

Applicants should send resumes to Dr, C. R, Wilson, Provost, Miami
University, Oxford, Ohio,


