COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetis

April 29, 1960

Memorandum to Users of the Computation Center:

= We are pleased to announce that in July 1960 an IBM TOO
computer will replace the IBM 704 presently at the Center;
furthermore in January 1962 an IBM 7090 computer is scheduled to
replace the 709. These changes should represent appreciable
snereases in machine capacity.

All of these computers are furnished free-of-charge and
maintained by the International Business Machines Corporation.
As in the present arrangement, one shift of computer time will be
for the Cooperating New England Colleges and Universities, one
shift will be for MIT, and one shift will be retained for its own
uge by the IBM Corporation.

The IBM 709 will have thirteen tape units on-1ine attached
to three input-output channels and a direct data entry device
attached to a fourth channel. Two of the channels and the direct
data entry device have been furnished specially for preparation of
a time-sharing system for the T7090. (IBM has also granted
additional computer time to the Center for this project) As with
the 704, the Cathode Ray Tube output unit will be attached to the
709 but there wlll be no magnetic drum storage Or half-word logic.
In other reapects the equipment will be the same as it 1s at
present. It is expected that installation of the 709 will require
the entire month of July.

 

The instruction codes for the 704 and 709 computers are
quite similar. The principal changes of the 709 are either
extensions and improvements or changes in the input-output logic.
With the exception of input-output instructions all TOU instructions
will operate correctly on the 709, so that most 704 programs will
require only winor modifications to work on the 709. The Center is
preparing for distribution shortly a further memorandum describing
the available 709 programming systems, appropriate manuals which can
be obtained from the Center, and advice on the conversion of old
programs. A meeting on these subjects for interested programmers
is also planned within the next wonth.

Sincerely,

Phil Novas
M. Morse

Direc
PMM: RM


