introduction

The purpose of this memorandum is todtmnmwonnd
transfer of this office to Wing C of Building 20 and its pomsible effect
apon the services rendered. 1 would iike to emphasize that this memo-~
randum is written to present SOme of the operational aspects associated
with effective operation and not as & eriticism of the proposed move.

As part of the historical background of gtatistical Services,
it is well to recsll that this office Was organized as an Administratéve
office in 1950, with the primary objective of aechanizing the activities
of the larger gdministrative offices such as Alumni , Bursar and Registrar.
A central location was therefore selected because it was felt that this
was essential to effective communication and lisison with the various
administrative offices which it would serve.

gince 1950 the following data have been put oa the punched-
card system: Temporary roll cards, final student roll cards, naster
subject cards, student tuitiom, student health insurance, dining-dora
gstatistics, alunni records, new Alumni Register, otc. As a result, we
have also provided 1isting and addressing service to the administrative
offices as well 28 departiment headquarters and Institute committees.
All of this, of course, necessitates & great deal of trucking cards and
date back and forth between the offices as well as intercommunication
between the office personnel. The essentialness of a central location
has therefore been evident.

gervices Rendered by the otfice of gtatistical Services

The present activities of this office may be divided into the
following categories:

1. Academic: Laboratory exercises and thesis research,

2. Administrative office services,

3, BScientific Computation: academic and p.1.¢. research,

4. Research in Business Applications and development of new
computational techniques.

it is immediately evident that certain of these sctivities mnay be per-
formed egually well in either 2 central or & peripheral location -~
assuming equal working conditions. Eowever, the services performed for
the Administrative offices and certain of the scieantific coaputing
projects demand & central location to minimigze the communication and
transportation problems.

Spcciticuuy, the following administrative offices require &
continuous lisison to effect proper gervice: