MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
LINCOLN LABORATORY
P.O. Box 73
LEXINGTON 73, MASSACHUSETTS

 

TELEPHONE
OPERATING PROJECT LINCOLN August 13, 195L LEXINGTON 9-3370

To: Mr. J. D. Porter
MIT Digital Computer Laboratory

From: L. D. Smullin

Subject: Cooperation between D. L. Arenberg and Digital Computer Laboratory

Lincoln Laboratory, Division IV, has had for several months on order
from Arenberg Ultrasonic Laboratory a solid delay line whose performance is
based on Arenberg’s best efforts. Unless he is able to considerably improve on
the performance of existing delay lines, the project for which this order was placed
has little hope of success.

 

The only design which can approach the requirements is one worked out
by Arenberg at Johnsville, NADC, over six years ago and is still the best and most
widely used by all delay line manufacturers. It is significant to note that Aren-
berg has written most of the published literature in the field and is one of the
few, if not the only, individuals capable of carrying out the proposed project.

It appears that the suggestion that the work be done on some commer-
cially available computer, such as the IBM 701 in New York, would unnecessarily
limit and retard the proposed program since this is not a commercial endeavor but
an effort to advance the state of an art in which MIT is interested.

From the long range point of view, solid delay lines are rapidly re-
placing mercury types in modern radar equipment because of the superior physical
characteristics of the solid materials. Improved methods of designing solid delay
lines, of improving the designs, and of searching out better designs should con-
stitute a major advaiice in the state of the art. The present tedious manual calcu-

An advance in the art will aid Lincoln Laboratory and the Air Defense program in
the procurement of delay lines for numerous purposes.

 

L. D. Smullin
Head, Division IV

 

 

lations cannot compute second order effects and do not accurately predict performance.


