By

|
troy,
ey p
e fiyy

d g,

ow ¢,
the
Prang
ne shit
ck is:':
f velo
rin onh
& uniin
e flov
e. Rele
1 togett:

e comp.’fﬁ

 

1953] TWO NON-LINEARIZED CONICAL FLOWS 105

side join continuously. On the expansion side u, is double valued in the yz-plane. This
difficulty can be avoided by modifying the upper side of the boundary as follows.
First, examine the hodograph of the swept Prandtl-Meyer flow. In Fig. 2 let ON*

    

Plane T
Normal to
Leading Edge

Boundary

 
   

\\LGOGMQ
Edge
Figure 2 Hodograph of Swept
Prandti-Mever Flow

be the undisturbed velocity in the yz-plane, and let N be the projection of N* onto the
plane II that passes through the origin and is normal to the leading edge. During the
expansion, the component of velocity normal to II remains equal to NN* while the
component parallel to IT traces an arc NE of a Prandtl-Meyer epicycloid, shrunk by a
factor (1 — NN**)"”*. Fig 1 shows that the z-axis is under the plane boundary, so the
angle AOE is acute. Hence the epicycloidal arc NE cannot have another intersection
with the line NS, parallel to OA. Now construct the hodograph by subjecting every
point of NE to the displacement NN.* Clearly, during the expansion from ON* to OE*
the angle between the velocity vector OU* and the yz-plane (IT) steadily increases
(decreases).

Now let A be the intersection of = 0 and the plane Mach surfaces that pass through
the leading edges and are based on the undisturbed velocity. Let P be any point on A.
From the nature of the hodograph it is clear that the streamline through P for the simple
wave In * 2 0 turns immediately into > 0 and stays there. Hence an entire conical
stream sheet through A bends into > 0. Thus it is possible to separate the two regions
of swept Prandtl-Meyer flow by means of a symmetrical conical fin, the thickness of
which increases with increasing sweep. Note that at the junctions of the fin and the
original boundary u; is parallel to z; . Accordingly, near the corresponding points X,
(Q.il) is of elliptic type. On the other hand, for very large values of X, near the boundary
(2.11) is of hyperbolic type.