. COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

BULLETIN Number 18
- November 28, 19€0

Index of Share Distributed Programs

The index of Share~distributed programs has become such a large
document (43 pages last time) that the usual method of producing and
distributing it has become impractical. Instead, this index will be kept on
file, in punched-card form, as if it were itself a Share-dlstributed programa.
While at the Center, programmers may request & listing of or & copy of this
deck by £illing out a card processing requisition and asking for "the Shere
~ index". Out-of-town users may request copies by meil to Judy Spazll, Room 28-153.
This card deck will be updated about every three months,

 

i
| Fortran-Fap Systema Library
| Toriran-rap system Library

Enclosed with this copy of the Builetin is a list of the subprograms
currently on the FMS library tape. Copies ¢f the writeups of these routines,
| as well as extra copies of this list, are available in Room 28-153, Judy Spall
will see that mail requests are answered.

| FNS Notes
FMS users should be aware of the following items.

1) FLIP cards, which are produced before the punched output of each
job and before each binary subprogram deck, can be left in the card decks and
| will be ignored during loading. FLIPped around so they are readable, they
| serve as tab cards since the corner cuts will be reversed.

| : 2) Starting December 1, 1960, jobs will be terminated when their

| lines of output exceeds (by 25%) the "estimated lines of output’ specified
on the ID card. This is a safeguard against wild output loops. To facilitate
this change, any programmers who have card decks of (STH) and (SPH) should
exchange them for new ones. Incidentally, the estimated lines of output
should include any break-point F2PM output.

3) F2Pi, the new post-mortem program, is now on the systems tape

and is part of the "standard" operating procedures. (See CC Memoranda 167.)
The following changes have been necessary.

a) All main subprograms compiled by Fortran have two additional
precompiled instructions - CLA $(F2PM) and S10 7 ~- to set up the
manual restart entry point. FAP main subprograms should also
contain these two instructions.

returns control to the mond tor.

|
|
|
b) The subprogram EXIT has been modified to call (F2FM) which


¢) End-of-files encountered on the RUN INPUT TAPE (logical 4) by read
statements will terminate the job without calling (F2PH).

d) The BSS Control Record has been changed to save a subprogram
storage map in core. The following F2FM request will dump this
storage map:

FORTRAN () Pu & MPVIE){0,1000), ALL, OFF, REV

¢) Programmers who have storage limitations and so do not want
(F2PM), must provide a dummy (F2PFM) available in Room 26-058,

SEOAP

As of December 1, 1960, the version of SAP in use at the Center will
produce column binary decks off~line (tape B4) as its standard output. ©2AP
users requiring row binary decks must specify that the assembler is to be
run with sense switch 4 down which causes on-line punching.

704 Systems

It is still possible tc obtain copies of the Center 70: Systems
Tapes (Aut-matic Operator Program, MIPMRL, F2PAK ete.) if you feel they may
be of value to you. To obtain such copies you must supply your own tape reclisc
and, of course, the Center cannot be responsible for their operation at other
inctsllations. If interested, contact Mike Soloml ia, Manager of Machine Operations.

Card Storage

Meny programmers are using the output racks in the Run Processing Room
as a storage facility. This is a working area and must be used as such, In
the future, any cards left in those racks or in the ouput tub more than a few
weeks will bo towed away at the owner's expense.

Procedures Hendbook

At the moment, the new Computation Center's Procedures Handbook is at
the printer. Copies should be available early in December. A notice describing
the distribution of copies will come cut at that time.

Saturday Operation

The Center will be open for the benefit of out-of-town users Saturday
December 10. If you plan on coming in that day, please contact

”

Mike Solomita, Manager of Machine Operations
Room 26-152, Telephone UNiversity 4-6200, extension 4113

so that we may schedule operations. If you have any particular problems
{classes etc.) let us know,


Bits

Judy Spall is now Share Librarian for the Center as an extension of
her duties as Consulting Supervisor-~---jA "Systems Changes Bulletin Board" has
been set up in the Run Processing Room. You are expected to read it and keep

posted-==== MIT and the Center will close at noon, December 23, and will be closed
all day December 26 and January 2.

C. C. Memoranda

The following memos, of general interest, have come out recently.
Copies are available in Room 26-142.

CC=164-1 An Abbreviated Description of the Fortran Compiler Language,
October 14, 1960.

The Fortran Compiler was initially prepared for the IBM 704 computer
and has subsequently been extended to several other computers. This memo

describes a portion of the Fortran langusge available on the IBM 709; it is
the essential part and correct programs will result.

CC~-166 Card Preparation, October, 1960.

Describes the use of the card punch and accounting machines in
sufficient detail for most programmers.

CC-167 Description of a Post-Mortem Subprogram (F2ri) for Use
with the Fortran-FAP Monitor System, October 25, 1960.

Description of and instructions for the use of (F2PM) the standard
dump program at the Center. (See FlS Notes - thie Bulletin.)


PR

  

(Igu)

(FPT)
BRIPIC, DIMPIC
ERBBR

LDUMP
RANNGF , SETUF
AXISX,AXISY
FRAME

SCOPE

CLOCK, TIME , GETTM
ASINF, ACUSF
ATANF

EXPF

EXP(1l

EXP(2

EXP(3

1BGF
SINF,CBSF
SQRTF
TANF , COTE
TANHF

(EXE)

RECHUP

{ SCH)
{CSH) , (TSH)
(SPH), (STH)
EXIT, EXIT™

Subprograms on MIT FuS System Tape

Input-Output Unit Table

Floating point trap dispatcher

Plot point in scope ~oordinates

Error subroutine

Dummy routine called after error in math. subroutinos
Bando: number generation

Plot axes on scope

Change film frame

Plot point in floating point coordinates on scope
Get and print time

Are sine, arccosine function

Arc tangent function

Exponential function

Logarithm (base e) function
Sine, cosine function

Square root function

Tangent, Cotangent function
Hyberbolic tangent function
Input-Qutput Error routine
Dummy routine called by (EXE)
Punch routine, om-‘ine or off-line
ead cards or input tape

Write output on tape o.- printer
Return control to Monitor

(F2PH) snd subsidiary routines Fortran oriented post-mortem routine


