0 IV/}’

Name and Address of Institution: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass,

Title of Proposed Research: Research on Digital Computer Operation
o and Utilization--Investigation into

the patterns of operation of electronic digital computers and the
methods whereby they can be used in mathematical and experimental
research; Iincluding studies of numerical analysis and machine pro-
gramming methods, Investigatlion of the possibilities of the complete
mechanlzation of the sequence of recording, prccessing, analysis ‘
and presentation of experimental data and the working out of such
specific applications of machine technliques to problems in science,
engineering, and administration as will elarify the basic research
and suggest new points of view.

Desired Starting Date: July 1, 1956

Time Feriod: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1059 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research; Background Information: We are organlzing what
should be one of the most fruitful centers for research related to
fhe use of electronic computers in this country. IBM is contributing
one of its 704 machinés, maintained and equipped with appropriate
auxilliary equipment. IBM and MIT are providing the building, part
of the new Compton Laboratory, and MIT i1s contributing some of the
staff from its departments of mathematics, electrical engineering,
physlics, and Industrial management. The machine will be available,
35 or more hours a week, free of machine time charge, toc MIT staff
and students for non-classified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute Machine
Computation Committee (see Appendix A for names).

In addition, the Center wlll be available, up tc 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England. Already
25 institutlons have indicated their interest in participating and
have appointed faculty members to be their Institutional Representa-
tive (list of participating colleges and representatives given in
Appendix A). These representatives will coordinate the research
done on the machine by students and staff of their institution.
IBM is providing some funds for stipends for graduate students who
wish to learn machine use by helping with some of this research.

In this atmosphere and with these facilities, there 1s an
unparalleled opportunity to do important and basic research in all
phases of the use of digital computers in science, engineering,
and bualiness., A central research group, supervised by faculty
members and staffed by workers picked from the graduate students
of MIT and other colleges, working closely with persons from the
other colleges, will help coordinate the work of the Center and
Wwill carry on research of thelr own in machine logic, in techniques
of wmachine computation, and in specific applications of machine