NN
v

*

Draft

COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Memorandum to Users of the MIT Computation Center 704.

Sub ject: Limitation on Computing Time

The requests for time on the TO4 have been increasing steadily
for the past two years. Already the schedule is close enough to
saturation that processing delays occur at times of peak demand. It
is apparent that this spring the requested machine time will total
more than the time alloted to M.I.T. on the Center's 704. According
to the agreement with IBM two shifts are available for educational-
research computing, one shift for M.I.T., the other for the other
New England colleges. Until recently the other colleges have not used
all their shift, so that M.I.T. has had more than a single shift available.
But the time used by the other colleges has increased, so that this year
nearly all its time is filled and there is less for M.I.T.

The Center has endeavored to accommodate for the increased load
by Sone one Saturday a month (used primarily by the other colleges,
the reieastd week-day time being used by M.I.T.) and by encroaching on
the third (IBM) shift when processing delays rose to longer than 24
hours. We hope to run two Saturdays a month this spring and to encpvoach
on the third shift from time to time but, even then, requested time

will exceed time available for M.I.T.

Computing time can be delay-limited or it can be limited in
advance by imposing quotas. The Center believes it 1s more appropriate
to impose quotas. Hereafter problems requiring machine time will be

classified as follows:

C oVL ANN ss

A. For. use 1n : SH nek

   

B. Problems which directly or incidentally develop new
programs or techniques which will be useful to other
machine users.

c. Otherg Pall,


=a

If requested time for M.I.T. problems, per quarter, is larger
than the estimated time available, allowed times will be reduced
proportionately; each class may be reduced by a different fraction.
A small amount of time will be held back, at the beginning of each
quarter, for late applications. It is therefore important for
students needing machine time for thesis research to get their
applications in early in the spring. It should also be noted that
requests for additional time, over that allowed at the beginning of
the quarter, probably cannot be granted.

In this way the Center hopes to keep The weekly computing load
from being so great as to cause long processing delays. It will not
cure the fact that M.I.T. has already outgrown the computing equipment
1t now has. We at the Center will be glad to hear suggestions as to
how we can get the equivalent of three or more 704's in the near future!

Philip M. Morse
Director

PMM: RM


