~~ MASBACHUSEITS INSTITUTE OF. TECHNOLOGY
Department of Physics

NRE 3 =f f - ) . 1 =
MEMORANDUM ;
- 3 . A bY, - » 3 : x 3 i : — 3 . -

Tos N, M, Bage

Froms Prof. Philip M. Morse ate L bates 2/20/51

Subject: Proposal for Research sid rata: Project in Applied

Mathematics, using large-scale Computing Equipment,
particularly Whirlwind,

Whirling Project has now reagtiod a stage of : development
where its potentialities can be utilized, together with the other
computing equipment at Technology, in a Coordinated research and
training program, of the sort anticipated by ORR during its
several years of support of the Project. Beth the Institute and
the Navy are vitally interested in the use of large-scale com-
puting devices for the solution of scientific and engineering
problems, and for the promotion of training for students inter-
ested in this Field.

Of course a part of the time of Whirlwind will be used
for the solution of a special Air Force problem, and it is ex-
pected that the Alr Force will contribute an appreciable part of
the support of the Whirlwind Project, for the development of
equipment and methods for the solution of this problem, HNeverthe-
less, approximately half the working time of the maehine itself
will be available for the fundamental program, mentioned above and

outlined below.


--

 

Since 4 research and training program must be closely
aad pa aculty activities, it is proposed ‘that ws 1,

ao i CAN
en by the recently ereated Senter for

Supervisio
Machine Tie The interdepartmental Advisory Committee to
this Center provides a broad representation of various xientific,
engineering and training activities likely to be involved,
The program which ONR might wish to support can be divided

into four sections: |

1. Research in methods of numerical analysis and the formu~
lation of scientific problems for machine solution, together with
Support of training of students in these methods,

2s Support of the seientificz and engineering applications
group previously referred to with Project Whirlwind so as to make
the WW computer useful and available for the above research, and
aid to the research being carried on by MIT fagulty and students,

3« A partial support of the maintenance of the Wh computer,

4« Research on an investigation of digital computing machine

components.

It 1s understood that details of the Program, which is
negessarily evolutionary in character, will be worked out from

time to time with the oclentific Officer of the OER.

It is contemplated that $300,000 per annum for a period
of at least two years will be required to get this program under
way. Detail of the budget is as followss


e

7 $100,000 :

Lr 210990
mee
50,000 =


