A ppl cco t cL QA : oh fhe
Support of Machine Programming Staff for the Utilization

of Electronic Computers in Soclal Science.

The Facility and its Potentlalities.
The high-speed computing facility, to be installed by

IBM at the new Computation Center at MIT will be the largest and

most flexible facllity 1n this country to be devoted exclusively to
nclassiried research and education. IBM wlll contribute more

than a fifth of a million a year in its support for maintenance

and operation. What is needed in addition to make this’ tae outstanding

tha le
center for ainvestigation of ‘alinpat fod meri potentialities in all

branches of scientific research, is about gage, 000 a year for the
vn STACI Jd
support of a research staff, which can work Rk users to evelop
new and more effective techniques of machine utilization.
Arrangements have been made for all the colleges in
New England to participate in the use of the machines and IBM has
set up funds for AssiSira to enable graduate students, at
MIT and at the participating Oe nro, to spend time at the
Center, learning to use the equipment. The installation 1s expected
to be completed by February 1957. Details of the installation and
of arrangements with the participating colleges are given 1iIn Enclosures
Prd
PB and € to this . This center and these arrangements represent
potentialities for new developments in soclal and physical science
of great and unexplored importvarice. ;
AAR ideo
There will be no charge for egudpmen time, Ee students ou
A
agg faculty of the participating institutions. Maintenance and the

routine aspects of operation will be taken care of by IBM, so that

those who know how to use such equipment can use it, without cost,


—————————————— TT,

 

 

 

(2)
fe aeiladle of fret

up to the 14 hours a day during which the machine will operatsn-—=di
number of problems in economics are going to be put on the machine
by Professor Solow, of MIT, and by Professor Orcutt, at Harvard and,
as other research workers in the social Sciences learn how to use
the equipment, other problems will be brought to the Center.
The Importance of Team Research.

But an instrumentality, by itself, cannot produce new
research. To make the important advances, which are possible with
a computer of the speed and flexibility of this, one needs a team of
research people, some of whom know the machine and some of whom
know the research field. To get exciting new possibilities beyond
the stage of a "gleam in the eye" we need, in addition to the machine,
a staff of experts 1n machine use, ready to team up with those soos
scientists ‘who believe the machine can help them but are not sure how,
so that, between them, they can translate the "gleam in the eye" into new
and important results.

In the long run, the various social scientists in New
England will probably learn enough about machine operation to be
able to make the machine useful to them. But it takes time to learn
to program a machine of this size and research workers in any field
are reluctant to take much time off to learn new techniques. In
addition, to get alssodmbedy the most out of a computer, one shou'd
have more than a casual knowledge of the electronic details of its
operation. This combination of knowledge, of a social science and
of a computer, will probably be developed in our next generation
of research workers. But if we want to get started using computers
in Social science now we will have to use a team; a man who knows

the field plus a man who knows the machine.


(3)

Need for a Research Staff in Machine Utllization, an Ingredient
TE ————————————————————————————————————— at tn rn erie 2 Ee Sr S| 50 8 Lr

in the Team.
=! Lhe ‘eam

This last ingredient is the part which is left out of the
contribution which IBM has made to the Computation Center. To put
the Center at the forefront of research, we must have a full-time

prakdig weena
staff of enthusiastic machine Specialists, to teach, students how
to make the machine do its tricks and to join with research workers,
who come with a "gleam in their eye", forming teams which can utilize
To the fullest the computer's capabllities in research. This staff
will be hard, but not impossible, to recruit. We have the beginnings
of one formed now, at present slanted chiefly toward research in the
physical sciences, and we have obtained an NSF grant of £35,000 a
year for 3 years to support it. We have the graduate student bodies
of the participating institutions to pick from and we have already
begun to make contact with those students who are interested in
machine utilization? Fhere are about two dozen IBM Research Assis-
tants appointed for this year. We should be able to piek from the
best of these a few who would like to stay on for two or three years
more, after they have obtained their advanced degrees in engineering,
mathematics or science, to be a part of our research staff, potential
members of research teams.

Budget for the Social Sciences.

To make up a staff which could handle the social Science
problems as well as the physical science ones would need another
4 or 5 good men, research men plus the technicians to back them up,
plus a small budget for travel and incidental supplies and equipment,
approximately 35,000 a year for three years. It would take about
5 years to get rolling and the developments should be reviewed at

the end of 3 years, to see where to go next. Such a staff should be


(4)

more important during the beginning stages of the utilization of
electronic computers, when the problems are not too clearly formulated
and when neither partner in the team knows the others plans and
ideas. Later, when some of the more important potentialities have
been demonstrated, the research can be split up into projects, each
with a definite goal and with its own budget, which can include
partial support for the continuing staff of the Center. So, even-
tually, the Center could be financed indirectly by contributions
from each project which uses it, if this were considered to be the most
desirable way of keeping it going. AT Doosan however, support by

com. Aly pyet alot albus the $e # 100,000 needed, hf
contributions from e$tablished research .p ofdcts would leave
unsupported the most fruitful research of all, Y unknown results
which are sure to come when a machine expert of the Center staff
works together with the economist, psychologist or sociologist, on
the faculty of one of our participating colleges who comes to the
Center with only a "gleam in his eye"

Possible Initial Directions for Investigation.

As indicated, we cannot write down in any detall the
directions which this research effort will take, as the various teams
are formed and begin to interact. There are several general areas

on lovin 5
which we feel should be investigated, which F=am=Stee—wil produce
results of immediate interest and which, in addition, should provide
hints as to still more important applications.

A, One of these 1s the deeper investigation of machine logic
itself. A computer of the complexity of the 704 is too big to be
able to see immediately how it can "think". Most machines are now
programmed to do ordinary arithmetic, sak a few programs have been

devised to make the machine obey the rules of Boolean logic and

some thought has been spent on working out programs to make the


(5)

machine play chess or checkers, in other words to obey the logic

of a game. Different Sciences and branches of learning have their
own kinds of thought processes. For example, economics and genetics each
have patterns of thought which do net exactly duplicate those of
physics, Fundamental research is needed to work out programs, rules
of thought for the machine, which correspond more closely to these
other patterns. With a machine of the flexibility and Storage
capacity of the 704, such research is worth while. It will have to
be tackled, at the beginning by teams of experts in the field of
interest, together with mathematical logicians who know machine
operation.

8B, Another general line of attack is in the field of the
storage and rapid access to information, such as is needed in the
problems of language translation and historical research, for example.
Several schemes of coding of information, so that it can be found
quickly and easily, have been devised on paper, but the "bugs" in
such schemes will only become apparent when masses of information,
of the order of several hundred thousand 1tems, are to be ordered
and sorted out. The new installation at the Computation Center will
have a storage capacity of this size. Some of the proposed schemes
should be tried out, and others developed, by members of the Center
staff working with persons familiar with the information and its
uses. J For example a project in machine translation has already
been setup, under the direction of Professor Locke of the Language
Department. As 1t develops, it will need the help of machine pro-
gramming specialists and will need the use of a machine to test its
ideas. The translation project is already Supported by the
Rockefeller Foundation, but parallel work by the Computation Center
on techniques for rapid access to large-quantity data would help

this work as well as others. Another promising direction of investi-


(6)

i gation is in the application of machine techniques to library
| inventorying, cataloguing, and record-keeping. Although special-
Purpose machines will probably be required in the end, many ideas and
proceedures can be developed and checked owt. on the general-purpose
machine at the Center with the addition, perhaps, of some Specially
built input and output equipment. The staff of the M.I.T. Libravy

18 interested in this work, and will contribute its knowledge to
1ts progress.
wn jak

C. Perhaps the most promising line of &dvance, because the
least investigated up £ill now, is in the field of social Sclence
experiments, where the computer can be used as recorder, scorer
and referee. 4&3 Tactical situations in warfare are already being
studied by "gaming techniques" at Rand and in other military operations
research groups. Similar isesdesd problems in various fields of the
Social sciences can also be studied by Simplifying the situation
down to some sort of "game" with more or less colicated rules,
which can be played by groups of investigators, 56 see what are
the consequences of various strategies. If the "games" are to
correspond, even distantly, to some actual social situation, the
rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require a great
deal of statistical computation. It has been found that only by
the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded up suffi-
ciently so that enough games can be run through to provide an over-

He salon under std. 7 :

all grasp of | lesmpropertiess such "gaming techniques" are closely
related to the experiments of Bavelas on the behavior of task-
oriented groups. The use of a properly programmed computer would |
provide such experiments with a powerful and flexible means of
changing, controlling, and analyzing these experiments in social
psychology. In this field we could work in close collaboration

with the Center for International Studies at M.I.T. and with the


(7)

psychology departments in several other colleges.

suggested Guidance for the Research.

The research activities of the Computation Center are
guided and coordinated by an Advisory committee consisting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges each
chosen by the president of their college. This Committee provider
overall policy guldance in all activities. But to gulde the work
in social science outlined above WE will need another, more
specialized group. If financial support for this activity 1s
forthcoming, about six top-flight social scientists from the
participating institutions will be invited to join a special advisory
committee, TO talk over possible lines of research with the Center
staff, to help find those soclal scientists with "gleams in thelr
eye" regarding machine utilization in their field, to help arrange

ts wwe 8 tke
cL (
the formation of seams vobursue suggested research and to advise

on relative priorities if aid when there 1s more work to be done
than there 18 machine time available.

Personnel and Budget.
On L aun
The attached appendices give details of the equipment to
A or Matda
ve installed in the Computation Center DY February 1957, and the

     

Equipment

arrangements with other colleges in New England. The suggested
pudget, for 3 years, is tentative and 1s more dependent on our
ability to hire one OT two more experts in computer programming
than on the amount of work to be done. if we can find more men

of the right sort, more work can be done. During the calendar
year 1057 we may not be able to find more than one Senior man, ona
or TWO post-doctoral fellows and a couple of technical assistants.
By the fall of 1957 we may pe able tO persuade One or two faculty

members of the cooperating institutions to spend appreciable

fractions of their time at the Center, working on Some of the


(8)

Problems mentioned earlier. A suitable fraction of their salaries
should be carried by the research funds of the Center and, if the
work is in the social sciences, would be chargeable to the proposed

grant. Some of the experiments in "gaming" will require special

input or output equipment. tri SE TIRE oe Tost 1s Tne Taare,
hone pray Roma te a) Hh fog Hina # 35,570

well, Le Sean $e A A nets Tn #34, 65D Wo prcovd We om ak
Devt, | i vy ess Ve cams \ le Puan ¢ £3
ro week Ve Coates, Ki M15 M fi £4
i. i ne od Ca Lo on As AO (51 i dood,
(ATU ol h al a Mm A Yo 0X
A de can Tog bo Le anadblo dd ein.

  

bar Auli ail dy hid wi Al +H anna s|

1967. {vane At oo N) I en) Ly Tok Es Wonch o ON
Ay 0517, eo ey A NE Jnl, Fe Eodteeh
= oT) ey Xx€ hang QA. ¢ yuk he Yo al Lh {vent

\

 

x


i
|
{
|

 

APPENDIX A

Estimated Budget per Year.

Salary, senior scientist (1 full-time man, Or two faculty
<» members, half time) 9,000

Salary, junior scientist (one full time; research associate)’
: tr scairy A wna, a ———— ATES end

A —

NF 7,000

Salaries, two technicians (coders orlelectronics technicians
7 as needed) 710,800
Equipment 1,800
Travel B00
Miscellaneous, Publication of reports, etc. B00

20

Overhead, ¥ per cent “3,200
Total, per year #36,000
For three years | F108, 000


APPENDIX A

Estimated Budget per Year.

 

Salary, senior scientist (1 full-time man, or two faculty
members, half time) 9,000

Salary, Junior scientist (one full time research associate)

7,000
| Salaries, two technicians (coders or electronics technicians
as needed) 12,000
Equipment 1,200
Travel 800
Miscellaneous, Publication of reports, ete. 600
Overhead 15 per cent 5,400
Total, per year £36,000

For three years #108, 000


APPENDIX A
Estimated Budget per Year,

Salary, senlor scientist (1 full-time man, or two faculty
members, half time) 9,000

Salary, Junior scientist (one full time research associate)

7,000
salaries, two technicians (coders or electronics technicians

as needed) 12,000
Equipment 0 1,200
Travel 800
Miscellaneous, Publication of reports, ete. 600

Overhead 15 per cent | 5,400 |
Total, per year | £36,000

For three years F108, 000


APPENDIX A

Estimated Budget per Year.

Salary, senior scientist (1 full-time man, or two faculty
members, half time) 9,000

calary, Junior scientist (one full time research associate)
7,000

Salaries, two techniclans (coders or electronics technicians

a8 needed) 12,000

Equipment 1,200
Travel 800
Miscellaneous, Publication of reports, ete. 600
Overhead 15 per cent ’ 5,400
Total, per year 736,000

For three years Z108,000


AyeEnvey x 8» ©

iss pis A Pleo
eer Gren Mess magn RETR
7, 10 Goofpnaie Use fry Nor Egat O Cano,

The MIT Computation Center has been rccently established

3

o —

for the purpose of promoting academic research in the

New England area with modern electronic digital computing
machines. As such the Center will make available to mest
New England Colleges research facilities which have been
heretofore denied because of the large financial and staff
obligations required for modern computer operation. TO
implement the operation of the anton: the IBM Corporation
is installing a high-speed model 704 epmputer along with an
extensive set of peripheral machines required for proper u
usage. These machines will be operated by the Center and
will be at its disposal(with the exception of one~third of
the 704 computing time which has been temporarily retained
by the IBM Corporation because of the current shortage of
computing facilitiesh The remaining tRo-thirds of the

704 computing time will be evenly divided between research
at MIT 2nd research at the remaining New England Colleges.
In addition to the cost-free use of the 704 computer, the
IBM Corporation will provide machine maintenance personel
and will financially contribute towards the support of
about a dozen technicians required for the effective
operation of the computer. The latter will include tox

ond oo Joe jan TL each Ao C SVN

computer operators, card punch operators,

 
 

Besides the technicians, the Center will have a
research staff of from six to twelve persons who will be

partially supoorted by a National Science Foundation grant.


Ro bowebeon a se win

|

~~

This staff will work in part on the problems of making

modern computers more powerful and easy to use, (e.gs utility

Programs, special function generation,

ge aalt
and will also explore the vague region of new com puter

compiler Programs),

applications,

In order that 511 the New England Colleges can take

an active role in the Center, the IBN Corporation is also

supporting an assistantship Program. There are at present

35 research assistants and associates in this program; re

gre graduate students apd faculty members of the Participating

New England Colleges. The major purpose of the program is

to promote broad academic familiarity with modern computer

techniques and applications. The individual assistants and

assoclates yldaweeing will do research in their respective

specialties, with the general criterien that the work should

lead to results of publishable significance. This appect of

the program will pe supervised at the

ou
Center by ,ome full-time
research Associate, (Kak

.
The MIT Computation Center wilde, under the direction
ne Petre at the progam

of Professor P.M. Morse, . % SEReg—p]. 3

   
 

Ya cormittee of MIT departmental faculty

representatives and a committee of Institutional Representatives

from the faculties of the other New England Colleges, The

-—
of these two groups wa

Supervisors over the

members act es

 

activities/ of the research assistants

and associates at the respective departments or schools,

The facilities of the Center will be available to any

person from MIT or the New England Colleres, Requests for

computing time

will be submitted to the -


FIT departmental representive or the Institutional Representative
at the respective schools. Final approval of computing time
requests will be made by the Computation Center staff.

All computation preparation (e.g. programming, analysis,

card punching) will be on & serve~yourself basis, with the

research staff at the Center available for extra help only

by special arrangement.

+

4

All computational work involving the use of the Center
will be periodieally summarized in a report to be published

semi-annually. The Center a1so conducts a weekly seminar

 

on topics related to computers. In addition, computer time
wae areulalits nd, coo a
for student problems will be ema to those departments with

courses which teach the use of modern computing machines.


HE APPENDIX C |
Localion amd Cogley Equa o f Comydilion Corts,

 

 

[Lord ES

The NIT Comphtation Center will have its permanent

quarters on the MIT @ampus in the new Karl T. Compton
albevik

Laboratory, which is scheduled for completion ds March 195%
In this building the Center will occupy integrated parts of
the basement, first floor and second floor. This area will
have office space for -=¥=sf the resemrch staff, technicians,
research assistants and associates, besides room for =F==f
the computational equipment used by the Center.

The computing equipment of the Center, which will be
furnished by the IBM Corporation, will primarily consist of
EA peripheral equipment.

A
This machine is an up-to-date, fast, general-purpose

a 704 computer and the

electronic digital computer. The basic machine code includes
o¥er 80 instructions, including those for arithmetic operations
with floating-point numbers. The basic operating time is
24 microsecondg for most instructions, with a normal maximum
of 240 microseconds. The 704 to be &nstalled will have a
magnetic core memory with a storage capacity of 8192 words,
ALD
each word containing 36 binery Bibs. (The storage capacity
will be incressed to 32,768 registers ameums 1958,) The
computer will also have, as an additional storage device, a
magnetic drum with a 8192 word capacity. As with most modern
computers, magnetic tape is used otf ror additional storage
and for input-output requirements. The. installation will
have 1% tape units, (at most 10 under computer control),
each unit storing up to a maximum of 900,000 words.
bw addin
Eesines the macnetic tape units, the input-output

equipment which will be under-direct computer control will

be a punched card reader, a line-by-line printer, a card


—_—
~

punch, and a photographic oscilloscope units IN addition
there will be units, not attached to the computer directly,
for recording card information on magnetic tape and for
reading information from magnetic tape and printing or punching
cardSa Finally,for card preparation Purposes, there will
be the usual assortment of standard IBM accounding machines,
including kep punches, printer, reprodacer, sorter, etc.

As a further feature the installation will also include
a punched card tranceiver which 1s a device for transmitting
or receiving punched card information via telephone lines TO

steely pep
remote punched card centers = \ with a hLranceiver unita
phoma § He NAN puna, wll

An additional computer output device be a Photon {
A 7 He
15 fe Provided [AATF rr NF
machine yesth——betTrtrer=—to=the-gent=s by the Seeds
newer EeirPurmgetion, This machine, oukstSaRTy desighed as

a high-quality photographic replacement for periodical

and book type-setting, will offer the opportunity of
transcribing computer results directly into better~than-
average publication form without any huren gntervention.
Because of the possibility of built-in self-checking, the
process can Pe made completely error-free, The Photon
machine {therefore should play a vital role in the publication

of dian ioal tables or similar problems where perfect

publication accuracy is required. Cian GEER, = esd Vv ok
awl itp Lie ane Bh ade) ao $2 VS 12d NA AMIGA A

nl OSVARR »


