COUNCIL FOR ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH, INC.

 

 

 

1200 JEFFERSON DAVIS HIGHWAY, ARLINGTON 2, VIRGINIA OT. 4-6377

 

January 24, 1957

Philip }. Morse, Chairman

Operations Research Committee
Massachusetts Tnstitute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Dear Mr. lorse:

I thought you would be interested to learn that the Council has
now substantially enlarged its Computer Services Division, and that it will
be in full operation by February 15. The Division offers a complete range
of services in programming, computing, and data-processing.

Initially, the Division's basic equipment will include an IRM 704
computer with one magnetic core memory of 4,096 words, one magnetic drum
unit containing four logical drums, each with a capacity of 2,048 words, and
five magnetic tape units. Supporting equipment includes a tape-to-card con-
verter as well as conventional punched card equipment, most of which will be
available about February 1. A second core memory is on order, and will be
installed about May 1, 1957. Additional Specialized equipment will be added
rapidly as the developing needs of our clients become apparent. The Computer
Services Division will be housed in the Council's Research Center, located
at 1200 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington 2, Virginia. This is about one-
half mile south of the Pentagon. Our Computer Services Division is under
the direction of Mr. William Orchard-Hays, recently of the RAND Corporation.

Dr. Jack Moshman, now with the Bell Telephaone Laboratories, who will shortly
be joining the Council on a full-time basis. This Division has the person-
nel and facilities for formulating, analyzing, and specifying procedures

for solving problems of a scientific or commercial nature, working in close
cooperation with the client's staff. Professors Max Woodbury, of New York
University, and John W. Carr III, of the University of Michigan, have agreed
to work with us on advanced problems involving computer application. We
plan to retain additional leading consultants in all fields in which our
potential clients are likely to encounter problems.