SECTIONAL TOY FURNITURE

 

My invention relates to improvements in sec-

tional furniture for children, the primaryobject

being to provide for taking apart by children of
different pieces of play furniture, and teach to
them the art of putting things together inproper
relation.

More specifically, it is theobject of my inven-
tion to provide means for easily and quickly
fastening blocks together so that the same may
be readily pulled apart to separate the sections.

A pair of cubical blocks 1 are formed at a
pair of diagonally opposite corners with sockets
7 therein for a purpose presently seen.

 

Preferably dowel pins of rubber are provided
for fitting in the sockets 7 with a friction fit to
form therewith fasteners for securing the cubi-
cal blocks 1 together, the fasteners forming
pull-apart connections.

The sockets are provided with bulbous inner
ends and the pins, designated 15, with similar
ends 16 for compression to insert the same into
the sockets and form tight pull-apart con-
nections.

Exhibit 4

 

SECTIONAL TOY FIGURE

This invention relates to improvements in sec-
tional toy figures having interengageable con-
struction pieces. It is an object of the invention
to provide a set of toy building pieces and con-
necting elements of an improved form which may
be interchangeably interconnected to build an in-
creased variety of figures; to provide the set
with pieces having improved joints for their de-
tachable and articulate interconnection; and to
provide a sectional toy figure with a limb piece
having an improved axial socket with walls of
less curvature than the ball to embrace the ball
in point contact.

Another object is to provide the limb socket
with shouldering elements which insure a posi-
tive positioning of the interconnected ball, re-
quiring spreading of the walls to disconnect the
ball from the socket.

The various -balls of the connective pieces pro-
vide articulated joint connection with the sock-
eted ends of the limb pieces 53 of the figures.
Each limb piece 53 is provided at one end wit!
a ball 54 which is axially supported from the
piece upon a reduced neck portion 55. The oppo-
site end of the piece is provided with an axial
socket indicated generally as 58 which cooper-
ates with the balls of the various connective
pieces to provide a detachable and articulate
joint therebetween.

The socket 58 is formed with oppositely dis-
posed flat walls 59 spaced apart a distance
slightly less than the diameter of the standard
size ball to grip the ball periphery at diametri-
cally opposed points thereon. The transverse
socket walls are slotted at 61 and 60 and are
relieved intermediate the ends of the socket to

Exhibit 5

16

 

SECTIONAL TOY FIGURE

\ 3
N
s
32
30
<9 \)
45 D>

 

form semi-circular openings 62, the inner
corners of which act as.seats for an intercon-
nected ball. The slot 61 communicates from
opening 62 to the socket entrance to provide a
channel for relatively free articulation of the
ball in a plane transverse to the ball axis be-
tween its point contact with the walls 59, and
receives the neck portion supporting the ball.
The slot 60 is somewhat narrower and extends
inwardly to lengthen the resistant spring armsto
more firmly embrace the ball.

The body materjal forming the edges of the
slots 60 and 61 may be considered as flanges
mutually extended from each wall 59 toward
similar flanges on the opposite wall to embrace
the ball within a seat defined by the semicircular
aperture 62.

Although the socket id preferably molded
initially to the indicated shape it may be alter-
natively described as comprising an axial bore
having flat walls 59 and an intersecting lateral
bore 62. The socket walls at either side of the
lateral bore 62 are slotted or cut away at 60 and
6l. The apices of the intersecting bores and
8lots, comprising the upper inner corners 64 and
lower inner corners 65 provide shoulders de-
fining the interconnected position of the ball.
The relative dimension of the ball is such as to
Iéquire pressure to spring the resilient socket
Walls ‘to admit or remove the ball. In actual

 

-;Con.

 

79

Practice the socket dimensions are made such
as to permit slight movement of the ball in its
socket with the shoulders defining limiting posi-
tions of such movement. However, it is evident
that within such limits the ball position is posi-
tively defined and is restrained from separation
from the socket except  upon forcing the walls
apart to accommodate withdrawal.

In addition to the seats or shoulders formed
by the inner corners 65, the flattened side por-
tions 59 of the socket terminate at the level of
the top of kerf 60 in an additional arcuate seat or
shoulder 63, to limit inward reception of the
balls. Outward movement of the seated ball is
restrained by the corners 64. The seated ball
generally accommodates itself within the socket
in a position limited by the engagement of the
inner edges of the semi-circular apertures 62
and the corners 64 and 65 thereof, with ball
surface. The ball is resiliently held in position
within the socket and it is necessary to forceably
spread the walls 59 and corners by pressure on
the inserted ball to insert or remove the ball
respecting the socket. In this manner complete
articulation is possible and the resilient pres-
sure tends to hold the parts in adjusted position
but the joint is not subject to inadvertent sepa-
ration.

All of the various set pieces may be made of
plastic or like material which admits of mass
production by die casting or molding operations.

The pieces are easily assembled and by vir-
tue of the novel articulated positive joint con-
nections the figures will hold their assembled
form in any selected positionuntil disassembled.

Exhibit 5—Con.

17