COMPUTATION CENTER

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

No. 21
March 23, 1962

BULLETIN

Suggestion

The Center suggests that you file these Bulletins as informal
supplements to your Procedures Handbook.

 

Fortran /FAP Monitor System, Version 2

IBM has recently distributed a new version of the FMS system
called Version 2. Primarily, this is a cleaning-up of the old
version, however, several additional features, described below
have been introduced. This new version does not require any
changes in most presently running programs, but the introduction
of Version 2 will introduce several changes some of which assume
the use of the subprogram .SETUP by the main subprogram. This
will require recompiling or reassembling your main subprogram
if it does not presently call SETUP (see VI ,SETUP ey

 

The introduction of this new version of the system is being
delayed until the Center's staff can incorporate the changes
previously made to the old version and until we feel sure it has
been properly announced as via this Bulletin, Notices will be
posted within two weeks on the bulletin board stating when it
will go into effect. When Version 2 is operating, the Center will
no longer maintain the old version since IBM now considers it
obsolete,

I, FORTRAN

A new version of Fortran called FORTRAN II, Version 2, will
be incorporated into the new system. It's compilation time is
decreased and time estimates can be based on the formula

.2 + .004 (number of cards) = minutes.

II. The DEBUG Package

The FORTRAN Monitor System will include a facility for
dynamic tracing during execution of FORTRAN programs. This
facility will not be available for MAD or FAP programs. For a
more detailed explanation, programmers should obtain SOURCE


TE ——

When using the DEBUG PACKAGE the following two restrictions are
placed on the programmer:

LANGUAGE DEBUGGING AT OBJECT TIME, J28-6135, in Room 26-153,

1) Logical tape 2, corresponding to physical A3, must be
the printed output tape. This assignment is the normal
assignment at the Center.

2) No more than 1000 lines of printed output can be
obtained through the DEBUG PACKAGE and the estimate of
number of lines of printed output through the DEBUG
PACKAGE must be included on the I.D. card.

When using the DEBUG PACKAGE programs which load beyond
(62032)g will be too large for the system,

III. FAP

FAP (Fortran Assembly Program) will be expanded to include
the operation codes explained in the addenda of the FAP manual,
Also, included in FAP will be the ability to update FAP symbolic
tapes where the input and output tapes are not necessarily the
normal input and output tapes of the system. For a further
explanation, programmers should request FORTRAN ASSEMBLY PROGRAM
(FAP) FOR THE IBM 709/7090, SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FOR THE
32K VERSION, J28-6186, in Room 26-153, Macro-FAP is explained
in this Bulletin, but will not be incorporated into the system
until a later date.

Other changes included in this version of FAP will be:

1) absolute FAP assemblies produce 22 words per binary
card,

2) all assemblies will be sequenced checked in columns 73-
80, If the FAP cards are out of sequence the assembly:
will take place in the normal manner, but an error
message will indicate that the cards are out of order,

3) the TAPEN{ pseudo-operation will be made available for
the instructions SDN, SDL, SDH, RDC, and RUN,

Timing for FAP assemblies may be based on the approximation
of 2700 cards per minute, | oe 1 :

1V, Library Changes

A. (I¢B), (TSB), (ETB) These subprograms have been altered so
that binary tapes are read and written in a new format of
physical records of 256 words, The decrement of the first word

«Ze


will be used by these subprograms.

Programmers who have punched
output from these subprograms in the past and subsequently

punched column one with a 7 and 9 punch will have to obtain
the version now in existence from the open files in Room 26-058
and include it with their binary decks to avoid the new library

version. Regular binary tapes with version 1 are compatible
with the new (TSB),

B. (IGH) This subprogram has been recoded for more
accurate conversions with the result that some answers may be
slightly different. A new format will be added called the G
format, If the prefix of a word is zero the variable will be
printed according to an I format, otherwise according to an E
format, (This should be useful for intermixed integers and
floating-point numbers.) The form for the G format is GW.d
where W is the field width and d is the number of decimal places
to be printed, if any, For example,

I =2
PI = 3,141593
PRINT ='2,1,P1
2 FORMAT (2G15.7)

would produce
@ 2 @ 0.3141593E+01

C. Double Precision and Complex Arithmetic Routines have
been revised and new copies of these FMS subprograms may be

obtained from the open files in Room 26-058.

V. Restrictions

FMS programs which load beyond (70203), will be too large
for the new system if not using Debug. If Debug is being used,
the loading must be below 62032 octal. Programmers may get
around this restriction by putting variables in C{MM@N storage.
With the present FMS version programs can load up to (70562)g.

VI. Non-IBM Changes

. SETUP All main programs which do not include .SETUP
in their transfer vector must be recompiled. The locations to
which (F2PM) traps have been altered and the initialization for
the interval time that will be used to stop programs that exceed
the maximum time estimate on the I.D. card has been added to
«SETUP.

(STH), (SPH), (SCH) These subprograms have been combined
so the combination is smaller than the original (SCH), (SPH),
and (SCH) package. Punched output will not be written in the
BCD mode on logical 3 or B4, The estimates on the I.D, card
for printed and punched output will remain unchanged, i.e. all
output from PUNCH statements should be included with the estimate

-3=-


of punched output and all output from PRINT or WRIIE @UTPUT TAPE
statements should be with the estimate of printed output,

The Interval Timer

The Center's 7090 includes an interval storage clock and
interval timer, Because programming and integrating the use of
this device is fairly complex and because the Center feels. its
use should be standardized as much as possible, a routine MITMR
has been written and will be integrated into Version 2 of the
system, This routine will be used to stop jobs which are
exceeding their time estimates, It may be used by the programmer
in many ways to time sections of his program. CC-=193, available
in Room 26-142, is a complete description and write-up of this
routine, Programs which exceed the maximum time estimate on
the I.D, card will be automatically terminated, without operator
intervention, When the maximum estimate is reached, (F2PM)
will be called automatically. At this time any (F2PM) request
cards will be processed, even though the maximum time has been
reached, and control will then be returned to the system,

FAP

A new version of FAP has been added to the FORTRAN Monitor

System, The following new pseudo-operations have been added
to FAP:

SDN
SDL
SDH
ROC
RUN
The scope instructions WIVA and CFFA have been added to FAP also.

FMS Library Changes and Additions '.

(FPT). The subprogram (FPT), floating-point trap, has been
changed such that the subprogram MPVIE), rather than ERR@R, is
used for tracing. There is a resulting speed up in operation,
The error message now written on logical tape 2 should be of
more aid to a programmer. For a more detailed description, one
should obtain a one-page write-up in Room 26-153.

SCOPE Routines. The following scope subroutines have been
added to the library tape:

1, AXISX, AXISY
2. BRIPIC, DIMPIC
3. FRAME

4, SCID, SCID1

lpm


5. SCOPE, SCQFEX, SCPPNX, BRITER, DIMMER
6. WRBCD

 

The scope subprograms DISPLA and SCALE, PLOT and GRID have been
revised. for the IBM 7090. Column binary decks for these sub-
programs may be obtained in Room 26-058,

Set Density

If a programmer should give a set density instruction
followed by a reset data channel, there must be a delay of 3.5

ms so that the set density instruction will be effective, For
example:

SDN  *#

AXT 800, 1

TIX Tord 3.5 ms.
RDC *%

One-Page Write=-ups

The Computation Center is in the process of revising one-
page write-ups for all Fortran-FAP-MAD Monitor System library
subprograms. These write-ups may be obtained in Room 26-153.

Computation Center Memoranda

The following CC memos of general interest have been
released since the last bulletin, Copies may be obtained in
Room 26-142,

CC~180-3 Computation Center Version of the Fortran/Fap
Monitor System

A list of differences between the manuals and
the system in use at the Center.

CC-132-1 Common Programming Errors
A list of common errors made by users of FMS,

CC-186-1 Fortran and MAD Format Specifications

A general description of the format specifi-
cations used for input and output in FORTRAN and
MAD coded subprograms,

CC=-193 MITMR, an FMS Subprogram for Using the IBM
Interval Timer CLOCK

Explains how MITMR is used by the Monitor
and how the programmer may use it to time and
interrupt his program segments,

-5=


New Request Cards

New request cards are now at the printers and are expected
to be in use at the Center shortly,

Identification of Program Decks

When submitting several runs under the same problem number,
simultaneously, you should identify the various decks, preferably
by punching "Deck n" in the comment field of the I.D. card and
then writing this number on the Request Card for that deck,
This will help the Dispatcher and the operators if it is
necessary to re-run one of the several jobs after the decks
and the Request Cards have been separated.

Extra Working Space

For your convenience, it has been decided to open
Room 26-168, the lecture room, as an extra programming area
when it is not reserved for other uses. Check the schedule
posted on the door and feel free to use the room if it is

available, Please try and keep the room neat since it is a
very difficult area to clean up.


