1955] BOOK REVIEWS 241

rather to a series of papers starting in 1948. The footnotes catch up
in the long run, if the reader uses his powers of deduction. But more
difficult is the deduction that the aforementioned result led to the
development of extremal methods and polyhedron packings.

The Minkowskian synthesis (i.e., the packing of space with general
convex bodies), certainly receives due attention, although a sense of
continuity with earlier work, particularly with that of Hermite, is not
made apparent. Likewise the contact between the geometry of num-
bers and algebraic number theory seems lost in the mass of details
again. The reviewer refers to the contact occurring when the alge-
braist had to work with inequalities not only to find bounds on norms
but even to prove the discriminant theorem, which implies the fol-
lowing: “Every irreducible monic polynomial of degree at least two
and with integral coefficients contains a repeated (polynomial) factor
modulo some prime.” Conversely in the last twenty years (owing
largely to the influence of Mordell, Davenport, and Mahler), the in-
tense desire for unimprovable bounds in algebraic number theory
caused the replacement of the convex body by the more general star
body. One contrast in presentation that the reader will immediately
note is that while the older methods (Minkowskian and earlier) are
often presented with enough detail (diagrams, tables, etc.) to excite
the non-specialist, the methods developed in the last twenty years
are given in little detail, with emphasis instead on lists of definitions,
theorems, and conjectures, and with a valuable bibliography drawn
up for 1951. Incidentally, a more modern bibliographical format
(alphabetically arranged, and containing the titles of the papers)
probably would be more useful.

The chapter titles are as follows: A. Convex bodies. B. Star bodies.
C. Linear forms. D. Minima of homogeneous forms. E. Inhomogene-
ous forms. F. Quadratic definite forms. G. Continued fractions. H.
Algebraic numbers. I. Partitions and lattice point figures. The re-
viewer feels that the inclusion of the last chapter is hardly justified
by the historical continuity presented, but that otherwise the titles
suggest that the geometry of numbers still would not be beyond
Minkowski’s recognition.

HArvEY CoHN