December 20, 1956

Mr. Pendleton Herring

Social Science Research Council
230 Park Avenue

New York 17, New York

Dear Pen:

In accordance with our telephone conversation I am
sending you a copy of a portion of our proposal to the Rocke-
feller Foundation for a grant in aid of research into the use
of high—speed digital computers in social science. This grant
has been approved and a sum of about $100,000 has been set
aside for a period of three years beginning next June. The
machine should be here and installed in the new Compton labora-
tories by March, so that by next summer we should be well under
way in the various aspects of research. I believe there are
eXCiting new things we can find and I feel strongly that the
social sciences are an extremely promising field for machine
utilization. Perhaps some of the suggestions I set forth in
the enclosed memo will arouse a responsive chord.

I have suggested to the Rockefeller people that I
would set up an Advisory Committee to help me plan the research
under this grant. The Committee should be small enough to be
wieldy (six or seven) and preferably should be senior research
workers in social science in New England and, if possible,
connected with the twenty-three colleges and universities in
New England which are cooperating in the Computation Center.

I have talked to Fred Stephan, to Guy Orcutt and to Max
Millikan, and I will talk to Fred Mosteller, but I should
appreciate getting suggestions also from you as to possible
members for this Advisory Committee. As our plans for this
research develop, You may be interested in keeping in touch
with them; likewise, we would certainly welcome learning of
other activities in the field of machine utilization in the
social sciences. Perhaps next summer or fall some, not too
large, conference could be organized here for the purpose of
discussing research in this field.

Best holiday greetings. I would appreciate your
comments when you have the time.

Yours,
Philip M. Morse, Director

M.I.T. Computation Center

PMM:LWH
Enclosure