July 13, 1959

Dre. Arthur Grad
Naticonal Selence Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthur:

This is in the nature of a progress report cenceruing
a possible Conference of Directors of university computing
centers, about which I wrote you ecarly last apring.

After I wrote you I wrote ©o about a dogen directors
of the larger university centers asking for their reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
genter directors. The answers I received were nearly unenimous,
They were not enthuslastic about another permanent organlization
in the computer field. They agreed there are a number of probe
lems peculiar to university computing senters whieh ought to be
talked over in comunon from time ¢to tiwe. They wondered if
special meetings could be called about the time of an ACM or
Joint Computer Conference or whethar one or two single confore
ences would not accomplish what was needed. Sceveral of the
letters mentloned specific probleme of interest, suceh as the
preblem of financing the computing centor while gtill keeping
1t avallable for students and faculty, alsc the guestions of
academic standards and the status of esearch on machlnes,

Last month I attended a conference called by IBM at
Poughlteapale for the dlrectors of university computing centers
using IBM eguipment. About 30 of the 85 kown dirvsctors of cole
lege computing centers were there, mostly directovs of centers
having 650%'s. We had an evening scesion concerning this same
problem. There agolin, the feeling wos thot it was promature to
talk about a permanent organization. However, I found a much
greater necd for general discusslon ond mitual agreement on
varicus matters among thls group which represented the smaller
and newer compubting centers rather than the representatives of
older and larger genters to whom I had written before. This
group felt the need of support for thely plang and sugpestions
for wnat axve wige and unwise neans of financing and help in
determining procedures and academic standards. After an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planning group with