MAINE MEDICAL CENTER

22 ERAMHALL STREET. PORTLAND. MAINE

JOHN c.5AeKsn.DInEc1-on Dec. 29, 1958

Prof. Philip M. Morse

Physics Dept.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Mass.

Dear Prof. Morse:

This is in reference to my telephone call with regard to the possibility of using
the M.I.T. computer for our project in electrocardiology. I am quite sure that
there will be no difficulty in obtaining collaboration with one of the Maine
colleges for this project. In the meantime, I thought I would explain the problem
to you.

In my opinion the closest model b the human thorax with a geometry that can be
worked with mathematics is the finite elliptical cylinder. The boundary of the
cylinder would be completely insulated including the top and bottom surfaces. I
have in my laboratory an electrolytic tank in the font of an elliptical cylinder
with which I have done some model measurements with an artificial dipole energized
by hOO cycle AC current to simulate the heart. With this I have measured potentials
around the boundary of the tank for many spatial dipole angles. This method, al-
though fairly rapid, is subject to certain errors such as the difficulty of setting
up accurately an artificial dipole in space. It is very difficult to know pre-
cisely the spatial angle of the dipole and to keep the pole separation exactly the
same for all angles. Another source of error would be instrumental. Our best
accuracy in measuring instruments is only about 5%. If the equation for a source
and sink or dipole in an elliptical cylinder is derived, however, the solution to
the equation ought to be accurate within 1%, I should think. For a thorough study
of the potential distribution one would want to do as many of the following things
as possible:

a) potential distribution on the boundary and in the interior of the
cylinder for a given dipole orientation.

b) Same as (a) for a sufficient number of dipole angles to cover all
possible angles with interpolation.

c) The effect of changes in the location of the dipole. Many distri-
butions would have to be found to obtain general results.

d) Same as above for elliptical cross—sections of various eccentri—
cities.

e) Evidence has accumulated that one should use two separate dipoles,
that is, in the left and right ventricles, for an adequate physical
model of the heart generator. Studies should therefore be carried
out with two independent dipoles in the elliptical cylinder.
Superposition of the fields would of course apply to this situation.