l ; . liemorendum on the ll.i.'l‘. Differential Analyzer

1.0 INTRODUCTION

| This memorandum is prepared with two objectives im mind. First,

‘ : & brief historical background of the Rockefeller Differential Analyzer
(RDA) iz presented together with specific comments pertaining to the

‘ | development period and pertinent factors associated with its operation
during the past twelve years. Second, the recent dismantling and
disposition of the RDA is described in some detail. In the discussion

" - of the above items, frequent reference will be made to several memoranda
which have been prepared on the machine during the past decade.

‘ I think it is importamt that the Rockefeller Research Foundation
| | be properly informed of the disposition of the Differential Analyzer

since they were so helpful with financial contributions dm-tu its -
‘ formative years.

I 2.0 HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF THE ROCKEFELLER DIFFERENTIAL ANALYZER

, - ‘The original design and development of the Differential Analyzmer
was initiated early in 1936, and several of the basic features of the

[ machine were determined at that time. Specifically, the design of the
servomechanism system which wegused to interconmnect the components of

| the machine was developed during that pericd. This is mentioned simply
to indicate that during recent years some of the maintenance problems

' associated with the RDA were occasioned by the particular servomechanisas
vhich were employed. Thess were vintage 1936, end as such, were not

| competitive with post-World War II servomechanism design.

The original Center of Analysis was formally organized by Professor 8. H.
Celdwell in July, 1839 with the aid of & grant of $30,000 from the Carnegie
Foundation. During its early, formative years, the Center existed largely
on grants from the Rockefeller Foundation, Electrical Engineering Department,
and other sources; and it was not until 1842 that the RDA was finally placed
into operation. Begimning at that time, the RDA provided a source of
financial revenue which assisted in the formulation of & self-supporting
regime.

During 1941, the activities of the Center (under the direction of
R. Taylor) were expanded to include & large battery of desk calculators
and associated personnel who were well advanced in the use of numerical
analysis techniques. At that time, the Center contained 3 principal types
of facilities:

1. The Differential Analyser facility consisting of 2 machines:
a) The original 6-Integrator Differential Amalyser,

b) The new Rockefeller 18-Integrator Electromechanical
Differantial Analymer.