110 Journal of The American Ceramic Societ

the fabrication and testing process. (Dense fired samples
show signs of surface hydration after about two weeks of
exposure to laboratory air.)

Samples of NiO were prepared by calcining ¢.p. NiO at
1000°C., and then hydrostatically pressing the specimens.
Samples were fired at 1500°C. in an oxidizing atmosphere.

Samples of UO, were cast from a suspension prepared by
the Argonne National Laboratory. The sample was fired at
1980°C. in vacuo.

Samples of porcelain of the following composition were
prepared: flint 19.0, Oxford feldspar 37.0, Edgar plastic
kaolin 7.0, Edgar Nocarb clay 22.0, and Kentucky Old Mine
No. 4 ball clay 15.0%. These materials were ball milled for
15 hours and specimens were formed by slip casting. Samples
were fired at 1250°C. to zero apparent porosity.

IIl. Results and Discussion

Experimental results for materials not reported previously
are shown in Figs. 1 to 4. The mean values measured at
various temperatures have been listed in Table I for these
materials and for those previously reported in this series.

Calculation to theoretical density is given in Table I.
These calculations were made in accordance with the results
of Loeb (Part VIII) and Francl and Kingery (Part I1X) for
the effect of porosity on thermal conductivity, and those
papers should be consulted for details. The data for thermal
conductivity of a number of zero porosity polycrystalline
oxides are shown in Figs. 5 to 7. Separate plots were nec-
essary in order to cover with satisfactory precision the range
of values found.

These results indicate that the thermal conductivity of BeO
is above any other ceramic oxide and 1s equivalent to graphite
and metallic conductors. Of the commonly employed oxide

y—Kingery, Francl, Coble, and Vasiles Vol. 37, No. 2

materials, Al,O; and MgO have the highest values of conduc-
tivity. Stabilized zirconia and the triaxial porcelain have the
lowest thermal conductivities.

A practical point of interest is that the thermal conduc-
tivities of all the pure oxide materials decrease markedly with
temperature, the decrease being more marked with materials
of high conductivity. At temperatures of about 1000°C. the
thermal conductivities of all these oxides except BeO vary
only by a factor of 3, whereas at room temperature the
conductivities (excluding BeO) vary by a factor of 20. Con-
sequently, any quantitative relative or absolute values of
conductivity at room temperature cannot be directly applied
to a higher temperature range. Another practical result of
this temperature variation is that for heat-flow calculations
the temperature of use must be considered. The conductivity
of alumina, for example, at 1200°C. decreased by a factor of 6
from its room-temperature value. The validity of transient
heat-flow calculations which assume a constant value for
thermal conductivity may be considerably in error for many
pure oxide materials of interest.

IV. Summary

(1) Experimental thermal conductivity data for several
polycrystalline oxide materials are reported for the tempera-
ture range 100° to 1400°C.

(2) Data for the thermal conductivity of fifteen poly-
crystalline oxides of theoretical density are calculated in the
temperature range 100° to 1400° to 1800°C.

(3) The thermal conductivity of dense pure oxides decreases
markedly with temperature.

(4) The conductivity varies from a factor of more than
100-1 at room temperature to a factor of about 10:1 at 1000°C.
and above.

Acknowledgments

The authors wish to acknowledge the helpful advice and suggestions of the following:

Parts | and Il: F. H. Norton.

Part Ill: F. H. Norton and W. D. Kingery.

Part IV: F. H. Norton, whose advice and suggestions were instrumental in developing
the equipment used in this part of the investigations and in carrying out measurements.

Part V: F. H. Norton and W. D. Kingery.

Bernard Schwartz of the Metallurgical

Project, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was responsible for the fabrication of the

beryllia specimens.

Part VII: F. H. Norton and W. D. Kingery.

Part VIlI: F. H. Norton. The research presented in this paper represents a consulting
assignment for a project initiated by Professor Norton.
Part IX: F. H. Norton, who originally suggested this investigation and contributed

much to it.

(Parts | through VIl were received March 27, 1953; Parts VIl through X were received September 14, 1953.)

 

e R T e

T'he investigations of

. thermal cond; slese r 2
issue of the Journal a ductivity of ceramic m

: re part of a p; :
Massachusetts Institute of Tech}iologobgen?: 2 I r el was underiaken of the
progress. From its ineeption, this mu% ngbz f October 1989, and which is still in
Atomic Energy Commission under C;ontrfm a{\‘} ejln SPonsore{d by the United States
The work was originated under the superv.s No. AT (30-1)-602 and AT (30-1)-960.
dndns aliher ; supervision of F. H. Norton, professo. Cs

@ 15 al the present time under the joint supervisi i L19jeS507 of ceramics,
Kingery, assistant professor of ceranies \‘/'&rims?on. of Professor Norton and W. D.
carried out by individuals e o . ous /Jalgts. of the investigation have been
in the CeramicsDiviin it uring lheir tenure as graduate students

Malcolm McQuarrs il :
Fhmmsal Qua 10T gradualed from Lafayette College in June 1948 with a B.S
Fogr(e I Jg;:;‘eelr g’i% é)hywcs after a period of service with the Royal Canadian Air
the dzli form'a ;n m’tutel eo??e?ﬁ%iéﬁ L (fegree . M(;st[e rIOf PoanE i glosies rom

: Ik . : , and was awarded the degree of Doctor of Sci-
ence wn ceramacs by the Massachusetts Institute of n 19 s
& : AASY ts Institute of Technology in 1952. At p

}’Ll(} ;tszr;i}{)/ogﬁd n Pcer;zmlfzf resIeal;ch with the Sprague Electric g‘bm pam'? \’orﬁzl zfgfzstf; :‘[
Massachusetts. Parts V and VII of the present series were taken t'ro'n; AI S e
: : : . : s were la s thesis pre-
\s.en;)ed ;m t/)f(;rlzg)l.}):ull)fillnlzeﬁt[ of the requirements for the Sc.D. degree and we;e ;)e:::eﬁtr:d
in part at the Puttsburgh Meeting of The American Ceramic Society i 52 (R
v Do TR ) ( eramic Society in 1952 (Refrac-
‘[/} ré{zztr L. Loeb 1s a research associate with the Division of Industrial Cooperation at
M.IT. He completed the analyses and derwations given in Parts Il and VIII as a
consultant to the present project. Dr. Loeb recewved the Ph D. degree in chemical physics
from Harvard Uniwersity in 1949, and in his present position at M.1.T. is mainly as-
sociated with the Department of Chemistry and the Digital Computer Laboratory. ¥

M ilton Adams prepared Part 111 of the present series from material in a thesis sub-
matted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctorof Scienceat M 1.1
This paper was presented in part at the Pitisburgh Meeting of The American Ceramic

Society in 1952 (Refractories Division, No.5). Dr. Adams received the B.Eng. degree
in 1948 and the M.S. degree in 1949 from the University of Toledo. He received the
Sec.D. degree from M.I.T. in 1953. At the present time he is employed in ceramic re-
search at the Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Company in Toledo.

Josef Francl recetved the degree of chemical engineer from the Technical University of
Brno, Czechoslovakia, in 1947. After the coup d'etat in 1948, he escaped from Czecho-
slovakia into the U.S. Zone of Germany and entered the United States in.March 1950.
Ie received the Sc.D. degree in ceramics from the Massachuselts Institute of 1 ech-
nology in 1953. Part IX of the present series Was taken in part from his doctoral the-
sis, and was presented at the New York Meeting of The American Ceramic Society in
1953 (Basic Science Division, No. 20). At the present lvme, Dr. Francl 1s engaged
in ceramic research at the Owens-I llinois Glass Company i Toledo. ‘

Parts IV and VI were presented in part al the New Y ork Meeting of The American
Ceramic Society in 1953 (Basic Science Diwision, No. 1 9). . ;

Part X of this series represents a com m]anon of data obtained over a number of
vears.at M.LT - T Vasslos recently received the Sc.D. degree from 1[ 1} Tl (m(ll was
engaged in ceramic vesearch at the Ford Motor Company, Deairbor n, M 1;- ”g{”; ) )Cfofe
entering the armed services. Dr. Vasilos received the BS degree m}cze‘n‘z.zs{,ry[ frgm
the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institule in 1950. R. L. Coble 1s a ;'_ej{e('zrc.z a“zsl('l;ll, fe-
ramics Division, M.I.T., and 1S currently engaged 11 gr adualel; 7] y (,(‘L l(‘l(m( 2.;1“1%,‘(’)’
the Sc.D. degree. Ile received the B.S. degree i physics from Dethany Corege s 3

aterials reported in this special