PROBLEMS IN MECHANIZING THE SEARCH
IN EXAMINING PATENT APPLICATIONS

Introduction

During the short time that the Office of
Research and Development has existed in
the U. S. Patent Office, it has become
abundantly clear that the complexity and
enormity of the problems to be solved in
mechanizing the searching of patent ap-
plications is not appreciated by many
working in the related field of informa-
tion retrieval. Much of the time of this
staff is taken in repeatedly explaining
these problems. This paper, therefore,
will portray some of the many details and
complexities which occur in the search-
ing process and outline some of the mani-
fold and interrelated problems that are
being considered in our research into
methods for, and means of, solving these
problems.

The patentability search is the first
step in the examination process, which
process constitutes the determination of
whether a patent should be granted on a
patent application. The requirement that
examinations be conducted is embodied
in law and constitutes a fundamental
characteristic of the operation of the
Patent Office. Examination of patent
applications involves examining printed
publications for disclosures of similar
structures, methods, compounds, compo-
sitions, etc. which may have been dis-
closed in the past and evaluating the
similarities and differences between this
recorded knowledge and the alleged in-
vention for which a patent is sought.

In order to understand the analysis which
follows, one should be aware that patents
are not granted on ideas. An alleged in-
ventor who wishes to apply for a patent
must disclose and describe at least one
preferred embodiment of his idea in a
patent application. And, if the nature of
the alleged invention admits of illustra-
tion, drawings are required illustrating

 

the detailed structure of the embodiment(s)
which he has elected to disclose.

Broad Statement of
Problem

An excellent statement of these mani-
fold problems in their broadest aspect, and
of cogent reasons for the necessity of a
solution to them through automation, was
contained in the report of the “Bush Com-
mittee,” (1) which stated in part:

Our patent system . is based on a
simple but wise philosophy. Thegrantofa U. S.
patent gives the inventor a temporary exclusive
right in return for a full disclosure of his idea.
Creative thinkers are thus provided with a solid
incentive for the development of the new and im-
proved. Simultaneously, the disclosure of the
invention stimulates further and constant ad-
vancement. In effect, each novel idea becomes a
“seed” from which a flourishing tree of practi-
cal knowledge can grow.

Thus the files of the Patent Office comprisea
veritable treasure house of information upon
which much of our industrial progress has been
based, including ideas whose significance may
not be realized for years after the disclosures.
They give today a clear indication of the present
thinking of the most ingenious minds in the
country as to where we will be five years or
more in the future.

The patent system plays a major part in the
Creation of new products and processes. These
appear every year and stimulate the establish-
ment of new companies to produce them. How-
ever, the individual inventor or small business-
man is severely handicapped if he must wait
several years for his patent to issue or if he
must operate for a period of years, in uncer-
tainty as to the possible appearance of a con-
flicting patent. If valid patents cannot be obtained
with reasonable dispatch, inventors are dis-
couraged and small businesses are without the
modest protection which enables them to enter
the field in competition with the larger, well
established firms. Yert it is the efforts of in-

ventors and the continuous advent of small
firms that keeps our economy flexible and free
of stagnation.