108 J. H. GIESE AND H. COHN [Vol. XI, No. 1

at A, the characteristics actually extend some distance beyond A as shown. In the
simple waves u, and w are known on ABg and AB, . Hence ® and d%/3dX, are known
by (2.9). The characteristic initial value problem for (2.11) with these initial data will
have a unique solution in some sufficiently small characteristic quadrilateral ABzCB, ,
where C may be assumed to be on the Y-axis. Since the initial data are symmetrical
with respect to the Y-axis, so is ®. Extend ® beyond B;C as the velocity potential of a
conical simple wave. In general, the corresponding straight characteristics will not be
centered. However, if the double wave AB,CB, is kept small enough, their envelope
and intersections can be kept arbitrarily close to E, , well beyond the boundary to be
constructed later. Between the two simple waves in X > 0 there falls a region of uniform
flow with the velocity u,.r of By . Extend the definition of ® symmetrically with respect
to the Y-axis. Finally, between the two non-centered simple waves there falls a region
of uniform flow with the velocity w;; of C.

It remains to choose a boundary in z > 0. First let U, , Usz U,., , and U denote
the points where rays from (0, 0, 0) parallel to ;o , Wisr , Wiar , aNd U5 Intersect z = 1.
Let G, starting from the right edge of the right hand non-centered simple wave, be
on the line ExUsx . Then u;,r is tangent to the corresponding plane through the origin.
Let FrGr be an integral curve of the equation dX/(u — wX) = dY /(v — wY) of conical
stream sheets. The final part of the boundary in X > 0 consists of the segment FrUs,
which corresponds to a plane to which %, is tangent. Extend the boundary symmetrically
into X < 0.

Note that near U, (2.11) is of elliptic type.

It is interesting to observe that an alternation of double waves, simple waves, and
regions of uniform flow similar to that in Fig. 6 also appears in an intersection of simple
waves which oceurs when uniform plane supersonic flow expands into an infinite sector.
This is shown schematically in Fig. 7.

 

Figure 7 Schematic Representation

of Interaction of Plane Simple
Waves in Divergent Channel

REFERENCES

1. A. Busemann, Die achsensymmelrische kegelige Uberschallstromung. Luftfahrtforschung, 19, 137-144
(1942).

. H. Cohn, Interaction of simple waves, Bull. Am. Math. Soe., 55, 48 (1949).

. J. H. Giese, Compressible flows with degenerate hodographs, Quart. Appl. Math. 9, 237-246 (1951).

. Th. Meyer, Uber zweidimensionale Bewegungsvorgdnge in einem Gas, das mit Uberschallgeschwindigkeit
stromt, Forschungsheft 62 VDI, 31-67 (1908).

. G. I. Taylor and J. W. Maccoll, The air pressure on a cone moving at high speeds, Proc. Roy. Soc. A,
139, 278-311 (1933).

= 00 N

Ot

>