e S T e SR R

General Information

Admission ==
In order to maintain highest standards, the en

ment in each Special Summer Program Is limited
according to the facilities and staff whigh are .
available. If a Program is not oversubscribed, appli-
cations for it will be considered up 10 two wgeks
before it begins. However, early appllcationv IS
strongly advised. Application forms are available
from the Director of the Summer Session, M.I.T.

The Institute reserves the right to select those appli-
cants whose qualifications and experience suggest
that they will receive the most benefit from the |
Program for which they are applying. Neither admis-
sion nor dormitory reservations are transferable :
except by specific Summer Session Office aut‘h.orlza-
tion. and then only when evidence of the qualifi-

______ cationsof the proposed substitute. has been filed

in advance.

A limited number of Special Summer Program
Scholarships are available to defray in part the
Program tuition of members of teaching staffs (rank
of instructor or higher) of other educational
institutions. Requests for such scholarships should
accompany applications for admission.

Payments

Applicants whose admission has been approved

will be notified as early as possible and will receive
Bursar's Remittance and Registration Cards. Both
cards, together with full payment for tuition and
housing in check. draft, or money order made payable
to W. A. Hokanson, Bursar, should be returned
immediately to the Office of the Summer Session,
Room 7-103, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts; they must be
received one week before the opening of the Pro-
gram. The amounts of tuition and room rent will be
stated in the notification of admission; both may

be included in one remittance, and both must be
paid in full before the opening session of a Program.
No bills are sent

Those whose tuition is to be covered by contract
with a government agency or with industry should
apply for admission to the Office of the Summer
Session in the usual way, as promptly as possible,
noting on their applications that a contract or agency
approval is being requested. At the same time they
should arrange to have the agency send a purchase
order or other evidence of its intention to authorize
tuition payments to the Office of the Summer
Session. This purchase order must reach the Office
of the Summer Session at least one week before
the Program begins. It should include the full name
of the prospective registrant(s), as well as the
name of the Program. If it is not sent, and if the
Program is a limited one for which others have
applied, the Institute reserves the right to cancel
admission.

Since housing charges (if any) are not covered by
government contracts, these payments must be
received independently from prospective registrants
at least one week before the beginning of a Program

Please note that a contract from industry or a
government agency does not reserve a place in a
Special Summer Program; it must be preceded or
accompanied by a completed application for
admission

Refunds

Registrants who notify the Summer Session Office
of cancellation of their plans before they arrive in
Cambridge will be refunded their payments
However, no refunds of either tuition or rent will
be made to those who leave before completing a
Program in which they have been registered, and
refunds of room rentals cannot be made for
Saturdays, Sundays or holidays during a Program

Registration

Each person admitted to a Program should report
at the Summer Session Office, Room 7-103, at
8:30 a.m. on the day that his Program begins. At
this time he completes formal registration, receives
a receipt for payments, and is given cards of admis-

 

sion to the Program. Detailed information about

special M.I.T. facilities and services will be available,

as will printed guides to Metropolitan Boston and
other New England regions

Mail and Messages

Registrants for Special Summer Programs may
have mail and messages addressed to them at the
Office of the Summer Session. Please have the
name of the Program included in the address.

Dormitory Accommodations

The M.|.T. dormitory system will be available to all
registrants in Special Summer Programs. Rooms
for single men, as well as a limited number of
accommodations for married couples and single
women, will be reserved if specifically requested in
the application for admission. Applicants who wish
other accommodations should correspond directly
with Boston or Cambridge hotels.

For single men or women, the housing rate in an
M.L.T. dormitory is $4.00 per person for each
24-hour unit, beginning at 6 p.m. The rate for mar-
ried couples is $3.00 per person. In general,
reservations will be available from 6 p.m. of the
Sunday night preceding the opening of a Program
until 6 p.m. of the Saturday following its con
clusion. Dormitory reservations will be confirmed
in the letter of notification of admission; this letter
should be presented at the dormitory upon arrival.
Please include payments for dormitory accommoda-
tions with tuition payments, made at least one
week in advance. Registrants in Special Summer
Programs should make no rent payments at any
dormitory office.

Each House is open 24 hours every day. Children
under twelve years of age may not be housed

in any dormitory during the Summer Session,
nor are pets allowed. No dormitory employee is
authorized to modify these regulations

College dining facilities on the campus will be
available to Special Summer Program registrants

and their guests. In addition, there are restaurants
within easy walking distance of the Institute, and

many famous eating places and hotels of Metropoli-

tan Boston are situated just across the Charles
River.

Free outdoor parking space near the dormitories
is available during the summer for those attend-
ing Special Summer Programs

Recreational Facilities

Summer guests are welcome to use the Insti-
tute’s libraries and recreational facilities, including
tennis courts, softball fields, squash courts,

the Alumni Swimming Pool, and a fleet of small
sailboats operating from the M.L.T. Sailing Pavilion

Within easy access of the Institute campus are
some of the world’s finest museums, libraries,
and art galleries. The famous Hatch Memonal
Shell, outdoor summer concert hall for the Boston
Pops Orchestra, is just across the Charles River
Basin. Major League baseball games are sched-
uled throughout the summer at Fenway Park,
only a short ride from the campus.

Several summer theaters and the historical areas
of Salem, Concord, Lexington, and Plymouth

are within easy driving distance, while Cape Cod,
the White Mountains of New Hampshire, the
Green Mountains of Vermont, and many parts of
the Maine seacoast may easily be visited on
weekend trips.

Design by the M.L.T. Office of Publications (RC)

art work by the M.LT. lllustration Service. Photon typography by
the Machine Composition Company: production by the M.I.T
Photographic Service

industrial dynamics

Mmassachusetts institute of technology summer session