r

Thermal Conductivity: ~ VIII, A Theory of Thermal
Porous Materials

by ARTHUR L. LOEB

Conductivity of

The effective thermal conductivity of a porous
material is due to both conduction and radiation
processes. A theory is presented relating the
effective conductivity to the conductivity of the
solid material, to the emissivity of the surface of
the pores, and to the size, shape, and distribution
of the pores. By means of an anisotropic distri-
bution and orientation of pores, materials can be
prepared having different thermal conductivities
in different directions.

l. Introduction

ue thermal conductivity of a material is defined as the
Tamount of heat crossing a unit area of the material per

unit time per unit temperature gradient. In porous ma-
terials heat is propagated by three processes: thermal
conductance through the solid and both radiation and con-
vection through the pores. When the pores are small, con-
vection can be neglected. It is assumed that the heat flow 1s
unidirectional, and that the presence of the pores does not
disturb the unidirectionality locally.

The first part of this discussion is devoted to the effective
thermal conductivity of the pores. The second part concerns
the way in which the local thermal conductivities in a hetero-
geneous material are combined to give the effective thermal
conductivity of the bulk material. It will be shown that not
only the relative amounts of pores but also their relative orien-
tation and position must be considered. This will be intui-
tively understood when it is realized that an array of pores in
a plane parallel to the direction of heat flow in a good thermal
conductor offers very little resistance to the heat flow, since
only a relatively small number of flow lines passes through the
pores. When the sample is rotated through 90 degrees so
that the heat flow is then perpendicular to the plane of the
pores, every flow line must pass through the pore plane, so
that the effect of the pores is much greater.

1. Thermal Conductivity of Pores

Since heat transfer across pores occurs through radiation,
the term ‘‘thermal conductivity” may appear anomalous
when applied to pores. Yet the definition of thermal con-
ductivity given above is applicable here. Mathematically
this may be written

5 dt
dx
temperature.
distance along flow direction.

thermal conductivity.
amount of heat crossing a unit area in unit time.

1

—x ] ™

Vv

This may be integrated to give for a pore

- Af
W= +k— '
Ax (1)
At = drop in temperature across pore.
Ax = dimension of pore along flow direction.
» = effective thermal conductivity of pore.

When the temperature distribution over the surface of any
pore is known, the amount of heat radiated across the por.e
can be calculated, for the amount of heat radiated per unit
area and time across a small temperature drop, A, is given

96

»

y

|.<—

 

—
N

Fig. 1. Heat flow across a pore with circular cross section.

approximately by

W = +4 ecT?Al . (2)
e = emissivity of radiating surface.
s = Stefan’s radiation constant: 5.735 X 107° erg per cm. 2
per sec. ! per deg.™*
T = average absolute temperature of region across which radi-

ation occurs.

The distribution of temperature along the surface of a pore
can be found with the assumption that linear heat flow is not
disturbed in the solid surrounding the pore. InFig. 11is shown
a pore with circular cross section, together with the isotherms
and lines of heat flow. Since heat flow is linear, the tempera-
jcure drop in the solid material is proportional to the distance
in the solid material across which it is measured, for in equa-
tion (1) W is constant along any line of flow in linear flow so
that At and Ax are proportidnalj

F(’)t}r points have been chosen in Fig. 1, all lying on the same
flow line. The points P and ( lie on the surface of the pore,
whereas A and B lie on isotherms that are tangent to the pore,
representing respectively the temperatures #, and £, The line
AB is at distance y from the center of the pore. The tem-
perature drop between 4 and P is proportional to the distance
AP, the drop between Q and B is proportional to the distance
Q.B, and the drop between 4 and B is proportional to the
dxstange AB. Therefore, the temperature drop between P
and ( is proportional to the distance PQ. If this temperature
drop 1s called Afpq, then

Atpq _ PQ
h — L AB

I the radius of the pore is 7,

Atpg _ 2Vr? — — 7\
th — ta 2;,,2 1—(;)

 

 

February 1954 (Part II)

Fora cylindrical pore whose axis is perpendi -

flow, the effeqtive radiating surfacg f(ir a sce‘ilagft(f)];\};lve Ere;z
whose projection onto Fig. 1 1s shown by line 4B may be
chosen as @ rectangular strip of length / equal to the lengzh of
the cylindrical pore and of width dy, oriented with the lon
side parallel to the axis of the cylinder and with the short sidg
perpendicular to the direction of heat flow. With the aid of
equation (2) the am.ount of heat radiated from such a strip
at Ptoa corresponding one at () is given by

, N
Wld)' = +4£’0’T‘5AIPQI(1)V — +4(’6T3 Jl = <%') (ll — tg) ]dy

The total amount of heat radiated across the pore is then

given by
+4ea T3l — L)l f:r\/l - (f)zdy

fWIdy
+2e0T? (8, — t)lrw

I

Therefore the average amount of heat radiated across the
pore per unit cross-sectional area is given by

W = 4+neaT? (4, = 1) (3)
Equation (1) would be written for this particular case
= ooy il
" +k o>
k= 2nreaT?

1t should be observed, therefore, that the effective conduc-
tivity of a pore due to radiation depends on the average
temperature of the pore and on the dimension of the pore.

For spherical pores, the reasoning is analogous to that used
above for cylindrical pores. The radiating strips chosen are
now circular, with radius y, and width dy, in planes perpendic-
dlar to the lines of heat flow. The amount of heat radiated
by a strip is given by

W2rydy = +8€o'T3AI,,Q1rydy

2
= +8eaT3 (4 — t2) \/1 = (%) ry dy

The total amount of heat crossing a pore is now given by

r l
f W2mrydy +8weor?T3(lh — 12)/ V1 — x? xdx
0 0

Il

4+ 8—; ear2T3(t, — ta2)

Hence, the average amount of heat crossing a spherical pore
: — 8
per unit cross-sectional area equals W = 3 eaT3(h — b).

From equation (1) it follows, therefore, that for a spherical
pore

k= l:?r(’aTa

For pores whose surfaces are everywhere either pa}'allel or
perpendicular, as is the case for cvlindrical pores with axes
parallel to the direction of heat flow and for laminar st;:uctures
m "Vhich lamina of solid material are separated by thin gaps,
the heat radiated per unit area is simply given by

W = +4e o — ts)
When the width of the gap is d, equation (1) is rewritten

W=k 25—

Therefore

e
Il
—
QU
N
Q
—~
e

Thermal Conductivity, VIII

97

Ge_nerally , the effective conductivit\* of a pore can then be
written i

k = 4vdeoT® (4)
largest dimension of gap in direction of heat flow.
geometrical factor:

v = 1 for laminar pores and cylindrical pores with axes
parallel to heat-flow direction.

.
I

2
Y=g for spherical pores.

L . . .
V= 7 for cylindrical pores with axes perpendicular to heat-
flow direction.

lll. Effective Conductivity of Heterogeneous Materials

It has been shown in the previous sections that the local
Cf)nductivity of porous materials varies as a function of posi-
tion.. In this section, it will be shown how the effective con-
ductivity is found when the local conductivity is known every-
where. It has already been shown that the conductivity of
cylindrical pores depends on their orientation with respe& to
the average direction of heat flow.

This discussion will be limited to materials containing
regions of two kinds of conductivities. The material will be
divided into tubes of flow oriented parallel to the direction of
heat flow which are just wide enough either to fit snugly
around pores in its path or to pass exactly between the pofes.
Each tube may then contain a number of regions of different
conductivities in series with each other. In Fig. 2 is shown a
material with regularly spaced pores, and the tubes of flow
drawn in. Tubes containing pores are heterogeneous. From
equation (1) it is seen that the temperature drop, Afp, across
any one of the homogeneous regions inside a porous tube 1s
given by

WAxn

Alg = —=
kn

Ax, = dimension of homogeneous region measured along flow
direction.

k., = effective conductivity of region.

 

The total temperature drop across the sample, hence along
the length of a tube, is given by

Al = Y Aty = W) ==
n n k"

since W is constant along a tube of flow.

For the solid sections of the tube ka = k.

For the porous sections of the tube k. = 4ydesT?®
(equation (4)).

Since the temperature varies along the length of the tube,
the effective conductivity of the pores depends on their posi-
tion in the tube. When the temperature is high, its variation
along the length of the tube is relatively slight, so that for 7°

e e
=M= geame B - - SEIT SR
::::U:::’LD::::D__:__Z B

e aET ) 0 R | e

Fig. 2. Tubes of flow for a porous material.