a (r

 

 

VIII.

II.

2:11,

XIII.

XIV.

 

.5-

Calculation of Nuclear Transformations and Radioactive Decoy

_ A HITIMB program was prepared 'which computes the number
of stone present in the nth chain neither in the simultaneous
transtornation by nuclear reaction in radioactive decay of a
given target nuclide in a given neutron flux at any tile.

Computation of Interest Calculations for Savings Banks.-

A basic GED-program was prepared which automatically
handles any of the six difierent methods for performing interest
calculations arising in the savings bank.

Computation of Bivariste- frequency Distributions an the 650

A basic 650 prozrnn was prepared which computes the
bivariate frequency distribution by corresponding class intervals
(for various parameters) , and also computes certain statistics
obtained from the above-lentioned distribution. An effective
method of storage allocation is employed which employs a neat
trick for obtaining the desired arguments and functions in an
intemally-stored table of values.

Study otpptinun Programing outhe' 650 ‘calculator

'A basic 650 pron-an was prepared which studied various
nethods for effecting sari-optimum data. storage on the drun.
A compact decinsl system tor word storage and selection using
the ten branch instructions (RED 1 - 10, respectively).

Solvent Extraction of metals v

A basic 650 program was prepared ior computing the ‘
distribution coefﬁcients of zircon and hafnium in the aqueous
and organic phases.

Solution of the Heat Flow Equation

A basic 650 program was prepared for the solution of; a
partial (inferential equation describing the heat flow problem
using several different boundary conditions.

Iterative Method for Solving Simultaneous Equations on the 650
A basic 550 program was prepared which evaluates the

convergence rate, accuracy, and solution tine using Craig's

method, Conjugate Gradient method, and Lanczos's method,
respectively.

650 Solution of the Vertical Resistivity Problem

A MITSS program was prepared for the solution of the integral
equation arising in geophysical prospecting.