ONR Proposal - 3/57 | Page 2

Nature of the Investigation, continued

ggeuigg: In the field of gueuing, work is proposed in the follow-
ng two areas:

Tabulations of waiting-line functions. Fairly extenslve tables
of waiting-line functions for Poisson arrivals and varying distri-
butions of servicing time will be available to the public within
the next year. An increasing demand for such tabulations when
arrivals are not Poisson is being expressed. Methods for calcu=-
lating such functions have already been developed. As part of
this research it is proposed to determine and make suitable tabula-
tio:;rof'theae functions, for publication, on the IBM TO4 computer
at ° :

Study of transient queuing behavior. Methods have been developed
for high-speed computation of the short-term behavior of certain
queuing situations and these have recently been successfully
applied to a case of alirport operation. Transient situations offer
serious problems in the successful operation of military, naval and
civil installations. As part of this research further mathematical
analysis will be made of these problems with the primary purpose of
providing practical computational methods. The IBM 704 computer
will be used to test such methods. '

Budget Proposed

The cost of this work will be primarily for staff salaries,
since no direct charge is made for time on the 7TO4. The charges
made by the Computation Center for programming and general service
in the use of the machine by projects at MIT will average between
$180 and $200 per hour of use of the machine, so that total compu-
tation charges will be only about a quarter of the budget.

Approximately $19,700 (see Enclosure A) is estimated as
required to support this research for a one-=year periocd. Starting
date is to be July 1, 1957. Past experience of progress in this
field suggests that a continuation beyond a one-year period can
be expected to prove worth considering.

Suggrvision

The project, for which the title "Computer Methods in Opera-
tions Research" is suggested, will be under the general supervision
of Prof. Philip M. Morse. Direct responsibility for the research
to be carried out will be assumed by Prof. Dean N. Arden of the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Dr. Herbert P. Galliher
of the Institute's Division of Sponsored Research, with an
assisting staff equivalent to 3 research assistants part time.

Both Prof. Arden and Dr. Galliher have been active in the direction
of operations research work at the Institute and ln the conduct
personally of research and computer use in the proposed areas.