1024 Annals New York Academy of Sciences

Effect of Greater Conductivity of the Heart Areq

In the experiments discussed so far -
ductivity of the heart!®: 17. 18 que to th,etl:})ﬁc?g (Lcatsobfezz}rllenl:l?tlye]y greater con.
test this point the thorax model was rearranged so that tE: idt: dt‘h In order to
trolyte was made greater over the heart area. This was done b P o el.ec‘
a piece the shape of the heart cross section id- : Y merely cutting
: (at mid-ventricular level) out of
pla§t1c base of the model. The resistivity is best expressed in ter of =
resistivity ratio, G, which is defined as the ratio of the resistivity of ::18 o
that of the main body of the electrolyte. The bottom diagram of mzrea t(7)
shows the boundary distributions for the following conditions: dipole g aIiRg%o,
G for the heart area, 0.45; G for the lung section, 4; and G for the spine anci
sternum section, infinite. A comparison of this with the top curve, in which
the heart area G is 1.0, showed that the boundary distributions are,similar in
shape, but that there is an over-all reduction in amplitude with the highly

      
   
    
   
  

=80 T ~40—g—o0-30, 0 + 40 + 50

DIPOLE 90°
LUNG RR:=4
HEART RR.=0,45

- — O

> ~O.
i B N CM. ALONG BOUNDARY

LEFT

al distribution for a B angle of 907,

MGU 7 ndary-potenti Shie
Ficure 7. Bou y-l f increased conductivity (b).

area (a) and with a heart area 0O

with a uniform heart

Nelson: Human Thorax Potentials 1025

conductive heart area. The positions of the zero points and potential maxima
remain unchanged. This is in agreement with physiological experiments in
which it was concluded that the effect of the relatively greater conductivity of
the heart was uniformly to scale down the electrocardiographic potentials,!?
and that increased filling of the frog heart reduced the electrical response.2?
A reduction in external potentials was also observed when good electrical con-
ductors were placed on the ventricle of the dog heart.?® Such effects have
been attributed to the “shunting’ action of the blood 2?22

Effect of Two Dipoles Acting Simullaneously

Lewis* and others have considered that the left and right ventricles may
have individual effects on the electrocardiogram, at least in the chest leads.
In 1933 Rijlant,* using a cathode-ray oscilloscope with an amplification of
about 3 cm./mv. and a film speed of about 250 mm./sec., found notching not
only in the R wave, but also in the P and S waves. He attributed his results
to the simultaneous recording of two or more activities. In order to study the
effect of independent regions of excitation of the heart on chest potentials,
experiments were carried out with two separate dipoles in the heart area of the
thorax section simultaneously. It was found that if the centers of the two
dipoles were located at the same point the boundary-potential distribution
was identical with that produced by a single dipole that was the vector sum
of the two separate dipoles. If the centers of the two dipoles did not coincide,
however, the effect of each dipole could be seen. In the experiments of FIGURE
8, two dipoles were located in the ventricular area about 2.5 cm. to the right
and left of the mid-sternal line. In FIGURE 8a, the right ventricular dipole 8
angle was 0°, and the left heart dipole 8 angle was 22°. The only noticeable
effect was the dip in the potential-gradient curve. In FIGURE 8b the values of
B were 90° for the right ventricle and 180° for the left ventricle. Although the
potential curve was similar to one that would be obtained from a single dipole,
the presence of the extra dipole was indicated by the change in slope of the
potential curve and the corresponding dip in the potential gradient. In the
model experiments with a single dipole, smooth curves were obtained for the
variation of potential and gradient around the boundary. In FIGURE 8c the
B angle was 137° for the right ventricle and —130° for the left ventricle. In
this case the distributions are complicated, and they could not be taken for a
single dipole curve. In the three cases shown, the peaks of the potential-
gradient curves do nof accurately indicate the locations of the dipoles. This
method of finding the dipole location can, therefore, be used only when there is
a single effective dipole in action. It is evident that the greater the physical
separation between the two dipoles, the greater will be the individual effect of
each dipole on the surface potential. These experiments indicate that whereas
the vectorcardiogram taken at remote points will give the resultant dipole,
chest leads near the heart should also be taken to obtain information about
local excitation of the heart. The two types of measurement provide comple-
mentary data.