p. /
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS PANEL
S. Gorn-Panel Chairman June 2, 1960

Problems concerning government relations to university computer activities will
vary with the variety of supporting agencies within the government, but will also
depend on the varieties of universities and their computer activities.
The variables to be considered in the government agencies are:
1. are their funds earmarked for production, development, basic research,
or education?
2. Are they supporting the computer activity directly, or only indirectly
as explicitly budgeted service for individual projects, or indirectly as
overhead to individual projects?
3. Is their support one-shop or continuing?, year by year or for a number
of years? Do they recognize that an initial capital support entails a
commitment to year-in-year-out operating expenses thenceforth? Is
provision made for the hidden overhead of obsolescence and replacement ?
It should be recognized that the very variety of supporting agencies or variety of
policies among divisions of the same agency can cause loss of support because
each can expect another to pick up the responsibility.
This is probably one of the main reasons for this conference.
The variables among universities are
1. state supported vs. privately endowed
2. generalized vs. specialized (e. g. to technology)
3. new in computers vs. already deeply involved;
In either case, how much need is there for analogue facilities and conversion facilities ?
4. owning vs. renting vs. building
5. small, medium, or large machines; contracted or local maintenance;
are trained operators required?
6. Computer activity centralized or decentralized? If decentralized, is it only
within the university or involving a number of universities?
7. If centralized, is it university-wide, under the mathematics department,
the physics department, statistics, business school, engineering, or under

the comptroller ?


10.

11;

=o.

. Is there research in the computer area itself? If so, is it in circuits,

Logic design, programming, numerical analysis, information retrieval,
or in mechanisms and systems? Or is it in tangent areas like linguistics,
psychology, human engineering, systems engineering, or business admini-

stration?

. Is there both research in the area and service to others? If so, is the service

open or closed-shop ?

Is automatic coding available ?

Do the customers need analogue to digital conversion ?

Is the education on computer use restricted to specially designated courses
or do many courses scattered around the university include computer usage?
Is the computer education for undergraduates as well as graduates?

Is a special curriculum with special degrees evolving? Are they already in
existence?

It is most likely that we will agree only if each recommendation has explicitly
stated boundary conditions with respect to these variables, and will be unable

to agree on completely general blanket recommendations.

With these variables in mind, then, the following problems can be discussed:

L What conditions may the Supporting agency impose, explicitly or implicitly,

2.

on priority and charge policy ?

Should the support be

a. part of general university overhead?

b. Block support for computing
bl: education, including curriculum development, texts, etc.
b2: research?
b3: programming service?
b4: machine time?
b5: facility administration ?

¢. individual support in a project
cl: programming personnel on the project ?
c2: programming service from the facility ?
c3: machine time:

c4: general computer overhead?


=35

In discussing these questions it is necessary to investigate whether certain
combinations of these policies can exist in steady state together. For example-

a charge policy of the form: 'those who can pay get first priority and those who

cannot get second priority’ cannot exist in steady state with a facility which is bedgeted
to break even==(example). In general economic laws will cause cheaper services to
drive more expensive ones out of circulation, and Gresham's law will similarly

favor lower standards against high quality.


