h-(Cont-)

b« Post-doctoral fellowships, or sabbatical leaves, to
ensble IDA employees to spend from 3 months to 12
months in study at universities, or possibly as guests
at other operations research groups, etc.

ce. Released time for IDA employees to permit them to
study on a part time basls at institutions in the
vieinity of their employment without having to take
on an excessive overload.

5« University personnel on leave of absence to IDA for periods

~ of from one to two years.

6. IDA personnel loaned Lo universities for one or two semesters
to teach, and to sct &s consultants on university research
programe (this is related to 4b), with subsidy to the insti-
tution to maske up the difference between IDA salary and value
of the service to the university (at university rates of pay).

T« Sponsorship of a sumer institute of three to six weeks
duration for the purpose of acquainting university personnel
with operations research techniques of the type engaged in by
IDA; these institutes to be analogous to the Execulive Developument
Programs Pfor middle management groups sponsored by the Harvard
and Stanford Graduate Schools of Business.

8. Sponsorship of summer study groups that involve participation
by university personnel.

S. Refresher programs of some type for those who have previously
been involved in sumer study or IDA-type studies. For example,
one might hold a one week's reunion of & summer study group one
to three years afterward, to engage in a posat mortem of the
original summer study in the light of subsequent events, and to
be brought up to date in the subject originally dealt with.

How for some broad brush comments on certain of the above points. General
fellowships programs, either pre-doctoral or post-docgoral will be useiul
to society as a whole if properly managed, but are of such a shotgun
character as to be unlikely to contribute very significantly to future
activities of IDA. This is Lecause one cannot tie the award of such a
fellowship to willingness to accept subseguent employment with IDA. Since
IDA employs only a very small fraction of the PhDs turned out in the
country in any particular avea that can be named, the contribution of an
IDA fellowship program to the training of future IDA employees 1s relative~
ly small.

Item 3 is more likely to0 serve IDA's enlightened self-interest, since young
men at this stage are making career plans, and the acceptance of a post-
doctoral interuship in IDA would indicate a predisposition to enter the
field of operations analysis.

As to educational programs for IDA employees (Item &) I do not know to
vhat extent there are employees of substantiel promise in IDA who would
benefit from the opportunities of further formal training at an educational
institution. However, to the extent that there are such individuals, it
would seem to me that this type of I{ringe benefit should be extended very
generously.