chologist and social scientist, on the one hand, to
the economic and political behavior of large groups
as measured by the Census Bureau or reported by
historians, on the other hand. The use of machine
simulation will be a powerful means of establishing
such connections, of developing the statistical me-
chanics of social groups. Here the experimental tech-
niques so useful in physics and chemistry are not
possible; we cannot make a five-year experiment on
a large group of people—at least not in this country.
Computing machines, carefully and imaginatively
programmed, may be able to take the place of the
live group to an extent sufficient for the experiment,
and the test may be run through in five hours instead
of five years. The procedure has its pitfalls and
difficulties, of course, but it is a promising one.

Machine simulation may also help shed light in
the science of psychology. The human brain is a
highly complex aggregate of nerve cells, each of
which has fairly simple properties. How does such
an aggregate remember, learn, or decide? Perhaps
machine simulation studies — studies of the behavior
of aggregates of simplified neuron responses — can
help answer these questions even though the largest
present computer has too few elements to simulate
the complexity of a bird’s brain, let alone man’s.
Some members of the Institute’s Department of
Mathematics are interested in these questions and
plan to use the 704 to test some of their ideas.

But we have left our visitor unescorted. with some
of his questions unanswered. What is this versatile
cgadget which is turning out to be so useful in so
many scientific problems? Is it going to take over
our thinking for us, as the automobile has substi-
tuted for our legs? To fear that eventuality is to
misunderstand the functioning of an electronic com-
puter. A machine like the 704 can really do only a
few very simple things: it can count; it can remem-
ber; and it can compare. It can do these things much
faster and more accurately than we can, of course,

4

The tabulator unit is
one of the channels by
which the 704 unit re-
ports its results, in this
case as letters, words, or
numbers printed on a
sheet of paper. Other
direct output channels
are the wvisual imgges
produced on a cathode-
ray screen, indirect out-
put or input channels
are the card-punch unit
(opposite page) and the
magnetic tape  units.
Two tabulator units are
provided, one connected
directly to the machine
(on line) which is used
for problems with a
small amount of final
answer.

M.I.T. Photographic Service

but that is all it can do. In three minutes it can do
as much straight calculation — adding, multiplying,
and the like — as would require a human computer
(using a desk calculator) a month to do. It can store
10-digit numbers in its core memory, and retrieve
them on demand in a forty-thousandth of a second,
and do this several billion times without an error.
And it can make the simplest sort of judgment —
tell whether one number is larger or smaller than
another — and base its next actions on the result.

It can do these things speedily and dependably,
but this is all it can do. All the complex procedures
of the calculations mentioned earlier must be built
up laboriously by the programmer using these simple
elements. And every action must be spelled out in
detail. “Get this piece of data from storage register
113 and add it to what you have already; put the
answer back in storage register 267; get the next
piece of data from register 114, multiply it by two;
if the result is larger than the number in register
1243, add it to the result in register 267; if not, re-
turn it and get the next number” — and so on, in
endless and meticulous detail. Every possibility must
be thought of; every time a division is ordered, the
machine must be told what to do if the devisor is
zero, for example. It is easy to see why it usually
takes three months for a beginner to program a
problem that the machine may run through in less
than an hour.

It does not do to take a chance or to ask the ma-
chine to stop while you figure out what to do next.
Machine time is too valuable for that; a minute’s
hold-up is equivalent to asking a human computer
to wait a week while you make up your mind; the
machine could be halfway through someone else’s
problem while you are figuring out what went wrong.
Things do go wrong, of course. Many programs
have “bugs” in them when they are first tried out.
In this case the machine is instructed to print out
where it was and what it was doing and then make

e E—————E