January 21, 1960
To: + Prof. R., R, SE
From: S. M, Simpson, Jr
Subj: Recommendations concerning the position to be taken by

The Department of Geology and Geophysics vis-a-vis
the M.I.T., Computation Center

The M,I.T. Computation Center has provided, and undoubtedly
will continue to provide, extremely useful services to our
Department. If the Center had unlimited computational facility
there would be no need to formalize any particular position
with respect to it. Since, however, we recognize the inadequacy
of The Center wlth respect to our needs as evidenced by our
efforts to date In acqulring a2 computational facility of our
own, there 1s perhaps some value in clarifying our attitude
towards the Center, ;

There are four basic facts pertinent to the problem,

1. The need of the Earth Sciences for computation is
almost entirely for research purposes, I am intending
to document this by & paper summarizing these applications,

2. The Computation Center has a8 raison d'etre in which
research applications rank very low. A January 4, 1960
memorandum from the Center establishes an A,B,C, problem
classification in which research uses disappear into
category C as "other applications”.

3. The Computational Center has, and may very well continue
to have, 8 monopoly on the computational facilities
at M.I,T.

4, Demand for machine time has essentially reached the
saturation point and undoubtedly wlll continue to rise
rapidly.

Because of these facts I believe the ideal goal which the
Earth Sciences should continue to work for is a high speed
computational facility of its own, speclally adapted to our
research problems and to our data processing needs, As an inter-
mediate goal I believe we should seek a medium speed machine to
bridge The gap between desk calculators and the high speed devices.

The success of these efforts is rather unpredictable and
consequently we shall be relying on the services of the computational
center for some time, Durdng this period we should do what we can
to make the Center of maximum utility to us. This should tske
two forms: attempting to Influence Computational Center policy
in accordance with our needs; and support of their expansion plans
to The extent that 1¢ will not Jeopardize our own computer facility
goals.


In order to make the Center more useful to us I have two
recommendations. First of all we should bring to bear whatever
pressure we can to upgrade the status of research applications
in the Center, I have the suspicion that the dominant
computational requirement of many other Departments is also
that of research, Consequently I feel that as long as the
present computational capaclty imbalance exists between Center
and Departments, such pressure is not unreasonable,

Secondly, I feel that we should recommend that the Center
explore policies other Than iis present ones in meeting the
dilemma cf excessive demand. There 1s a natural tendency in
the face of such a demand to require 100% efficiency in the use
of the machine, Thls tendency is effective only up to a point.
I remember Columbus Iselin's comment regarding efficient use
of cceanographic vessels, He sald that as soon as the ships
began running the scientists the research deterlorated.

Another result of the excesslve demand is the institution of

the quota system with blanket reductions in allowed Time
according to over-requests., This 1s an undesirable and temporary
arrangement. It 1s undesirable since the most productive period
of most computational research efforts cccurs toward the end,

and 1t is temporary because increasing demand wlll eventually
result in proportional reduction giving no one adequate computer
tims. The more desirable alternative is to be increasingly
selectlve in allowing computer problems to begin, and to give
those selected adequate time, I do not believe the Computational
Center is qualified to make such selection intelligently, at
least with respect to research problems. This, I believe, is
more properly a function of the separate Departments.

Therefore I feel strongly that the Computation Center should,
in the very near future, begin apportioning computer time in
blocks to Departments and not to individuals; at least for research
applications. Computer committees within each Department could
then intelligently examine thelr computational needs and divide
up their allotted time much more equitably with respect to research
programs and individual needs than is possible by a small
Computational Center committee trying to do the same thing for
the entire school. Actually the Center should be happy to be
relieved of thls detailed responsibllity. Thelr applications
committee would then have the task of setting Departmental quotas
on the basis of Departmental requests, each presented as a unit
from the Departmental commlttee,

As for our support of Center growth, we should help them to
the extent of -our interests, which in turn depends on the status
of our own computer facility ambitions, and the willingness of
the Center toaccomaodate themselves to our needs. Such help
might take the form of actlve support of fund raising campalgns
by making available documents detailing the needs for Earth Sclence
computation, and by other activities to influence National Foundation
grants. I would also recommend that the Center approach a variety
of computer companies to see what they might have to offer, since
the enormous prestige and publicity assoclated with such an
installation must be coveted by many first rate computer manufacturing

FTN
oo a A up 3 oO


