Edwin T. Prothro, Professor of Psychology, American
University of Beirut, and Visiting Lecturer (1957-58),
University of Michigan, for research in Lebanon on
child-rearing practices and motivational patterns in a
Christian village and in a Moslem village.

Louise E. Sweet, Visiting Assistant Professor of Anthro-
pology, University of Kansas, for ethnographic study in
Iraq of an Arab village.

Panayiotis A. Vatikiotis, Assistant Professor of Govern-
ment, Indiana University, for research in several Middle
Eastern countries on the role of an occupational group
in the political process.

GRANTS FOR FIELD STUDIES
OF POLITICAL GROUPS IN FOREIGN AREAS

The Committee on Comparative Politics—Gabriel A.
Almond (chairman), Taylor Cole, James S. Coleman, Roy
C. Macridis, Sigmund Neumann, Guy J. Pauker, Lucian W,
Pye, Walter R. Sharp—at its meeting on February 21-22
awarded 5 grants for field studies of political groups in
foreign areas and named one alternate:

Samuel H. Beer, Professor of Government, Harvard Uni-
versity, for research in Great Britain on the roles of
political parties and interest groups in policy making
in that country since 1945.

Ralph Braibanti, Associate Professor of Political Science,
Duke University, for research in Pakistan on the
bureaucracy of that country.

F. C. Engelmann, Associate Professor of Political Science,
Alfred University, for research on the Austrian political
system (alternate).

Carl H. Landé, Ph.D. candidate in government, Harvard
University, postdoctoral award for research in the
Philippines on political groups.

Gordon K. Lewis, Associate Professor of Social Sciences,
University of Puerto Rico, for research in the British
West Indies on the present and emergent political
groups in the area.

Stanley Spector, Assistant Professor of Far Eastern Affairs,
Washington University, for research in Malaya and
Singapore on the role of intellectuals in the formation
and execution of policies, and in the formation of
opinion in a Southeast Asian urban community.

GRANTS FOR RESEARCH ON AMERICAN
GOVERNMENTAL PROCESSES

The Committee on Political Behavior—David B. Truman
(chairman), Angus Campbell, Robert A. Dahl, Oliver
Garceau, Alexander Heard, V. O. Key, Jr., Avery Leiserson,
Dayton D. McKean—at its meeting on November 8-9, 1957
awarded one new grant for research on American govern-
mental processes:

 

John A. Schnittker, Assistant Professor of Agricultural
Economics, Kansas State College, for research on the
allocation of authority and responsibility in the ad-
ministration of public agricultural programs.

Further awards are to be made by the committee at a meet-
ing on March 1.

INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE TRAVEL GRANTS

Under the Council’s program of international conference
travel grants, awards have been made to facilitate attend-

ance at four additional international meetings of social
scientists:

International Association of Applied Psychology

Awards for attendance at the Congress of this Associa-
tion to be held in Rome on April 9-14, 1958, have been
made by a subcommittee—Lee J. Cronbach (chairman),
George A. Kelly, and S. Rains Wallace—of the Committee
on International Conference Travel Grants, of which Mr.
Cronbach is a2 member. The 8 recipients of awards are:

Dorothy C. Adkins, Professor of Psychology, University
of North Carolina

Edwin A. Fleishman, Associate Professor of Industrial
Relations and of Psychology, Yale University

Murray Glanzer, Associate Program Director, American
Institute for Research, Pittsburgh

C. H Lawshe, Professor of Psychology, Purdue Univer-
sity

Floyd C. Mann, Program Director, Survey Research
Center, Institute for Social Research, and Assistant Pro-
fessor of Psychology, University of Michigan

David G. Ryans, Professor of Educational Psychology,
University of California, Los Angeles

Donald W. Taylor, Professor of Personnel Administra-
tion and of Psychology, Yale University

Albert S. Thompson, Professor, Department of Psycho-
logical Foundations and Services, Teachers College,
Columbia University

International Conference of Agricultural Economists

Travel grants for this conference, to be held in Mysore,
India on August 24 - September 4, 1958, have been awarded
by the following subcommittee: William O. Jones (chair-
man), George E. Brandow, and Harold G. Halcrow. The
6 recipients are:

Chester B. Baker, Associate Professor of Farm Manage-
ment, University of Illinois

Karl Brandt, Professor of Agricultural Economics, Stan-
ford University

D. Gale Johnson, Professor of Economics, University of
Chicago

George L. Mehren, Professor of Agricultural Economics,
University of California, Berkeley

Frederick A. Williams, Dean of the Graduate School,
Agricultural and Technical College of North Carolina

Lawrence Witt, Professor of Agricultural Economics,
Michigan State University

International Congress of Americanists

The Congress will be held in San José, Costa Rica, on
July 20-27, 1958. Travel grants have been awarded by a
subcommittee consisting of Ralph L. Beals (chairman, and
member of the Committee on International Conference

9