Extension of NSF G2940 Page 7
Enclosure B, Continued

8. Investigation of techniques for intercommunication
between computers, ineluding the possibllity of cycles different
in length or kind running simultaneously with frequent comparison,
€.Z., several single-accumilator computers with common memory,and
the behavior of a computer with multiple accumilators. Some of
these properties can be simulated on a 704 by utilization of
additional drums and magnetic core banks.

9. Computer estimation of problem time. In linear problems,
estimations of bounds of certain functionals, and thence conver-
gence criteria for terminating iteration, or switeching to a
different iteration.

Pacilities:

The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TO4 Electronic
Data Processing Machine with the following machine complements
12 magnetic tape units, 2 magnetic core storage units containing
a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing #,000
words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader, alpha-
betic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3 off-line
magnetic-tape-controlled printer, magnetic-tape-controlled card
punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition to the 704 there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines inecluding card punches, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate
macgéﬁ? rental, in excess of $50,000 per month, will be donated
by °

The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
will be but cne of many in the field, technigues, programs, and
numeriecal procedures developed for this machine will be of use
to others having access to 704 equipment. |

Personnel - Supervisory and Administrative Personnel Associated
with the Project:

Principal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with
computing problems during his career in theoretical physics sinee
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first
Bush differential analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got
his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 19290 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research” (with G. E.
Kimball) 1950, "Methods of Theoretical Physics" (with Herman
Feshbach) 1953, and "Queuing, Inventory and Maintenance" 1957,
and about a hundred journal articles, many of which give results
obtained from machine computation. For further biographic detalls
see "Who's Who". Only a fraction of his salary will be charged to
the Project. .