- .. B -
O o - U : ﬁ-’
] @ <
g Qo : = =
—~ ) € 7
M~ (? f ,:.
o o 2 g
= g £
o £ »
2§ £/
e g 7

 

 

used to reserve an area of memory for data storage or
The expression in the variable field deter-

working space.

mines the length of the block reserved, and the symbol in
the location field is assigned to the first cell of the

The assembler performs the BSS pseudo-operation
then increasing

block.
the current value of the location counter,

by first assigning to the symbol in the location field
the location counter by the value of the.expression in

the variable field. The symbol in the location field 1is
a relocatable symbol, All symbols appearing in the variable
field of a DBSS pseudo-operation must have been previously
If the expres-

its value is

3
defined; otherwise a phase error results.
sion in the variable field is absolute,

computed according to the rules for arithmetical expres-
sions. If the expression is Boolean, it is computed
according to the rules for computing Boolean expressions.
I1f the expression is relocatable, common, or involves a
relocation error, it is not permitted as the variable

field of a BSS pseudo-operation and its use therein is
For the purpose of

called a phase relocation error.
determining whether or not a phase relocation error has
occurred, symbols defined by SYN and EQU should be replaced
by their defining expressions. The rules regarding phase
relocation errors given above for the BSS pseudo-operation
also apply to the BES and COMVON pseudo-operations.
The dif-

BES The BES (Elock Ended by Eymbol) pseudo-operation is used
to reserve storage in much the same way as BSS.
ference is-this: the symbol in the location field is
assigned to the first memory cell after the end of the
If the location field is blank, the BES is exactly
The assembler perfoirms the BES pseudo-

block.
like the BSS.
operation by first increasing the location counter by the
value of the expression in the variable field, and then
assigning to the symbol in the location field the new value
A symbol defined by a BES pseudo-
Symbols used in the

of the location counter.

operation is a relocatable symbol.
variable field must have been previously defined, or a

==