COWATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Date: February 109 1960

Memorandum to: Dr. c. R. DeCarlo, Assistant General Manager,
Data Systems Division, IBM Corporation

From: Philip Mo Morse, Director, MIT Computation Center
SubJect: Replacement of 70k by a 7090

Back ound: In June, 1957, somewhat less than three years
ages an‘fﬁﬁ§$5E“ﬁas installed at the Computation Center by IBM;

under a special agreement whereby IBM maintains the equipmenty
contributes toward amortizing the additions to the Compton Laboratory
which house the Center and supports a number of research assistants

and associates who assist users of the machine, and MIT provides

the staff and operates the Center for the use of MIT and other
cooperating New England colleges and universities. The primary

purpose of the arrangement is to enable students and faculty of

these institutions to learn how to use highaspeed computing machines
effectively” so that the next generation of scientists, engineers

and industrial executives will be able to exploit machine capabilities a»
in other wordsg the primary purpose is to demonstrate that such

machines are as important a part of the educational equipment of a
modern college as are chemistry laboratories? for example. A

secondary purpose is to foster research in the use of computing machinesy

particularly in those fields of application which have not yet been
explored or exploited fully.

To this endp priority on 70h time has been accorded to
regular class use by courses in machine programming and applications»
to students using the machine in their thesis research and to
research projects investigating new techniques of machine usea
Particular attention has been given to making it easy for the out»
oratown users: mail servicey special scheduling during visits and
Saturday operation for those who cannot come to Cambridge during
week dayso

Present Situation: This program has been outstandingly

success?ﬁi: Hence the present memorandum° Class use of the 704

has grown rapidly; at MIT there is now a freshman course in machine
use» four upperaclass and a number of graduate courses which use
time on the machinep in addition to the sequence of special coding
courses which are given by the Center staff during each term and
summers A number of other colleges bring some of their classes in
for one or more laboratory sessions” Glass use will expand furtherg


-gi

but its expansion will be hampered by the limitations of access
to the 701+y as will be discussed latera

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded
rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupied with their work
(including their class exercises). But this use tends to be self»
limiting for, as soon as a college faculty begins fully to apprec~
late the possibilities in education and research or computers, the
pressure builds up for a machine of their own on their own campus.
By now at least eight or the cooperating institutions have machines
of their owns These are smaller machinesa of the 650 type, (with
some larger machines projected), so these institutions still come
to the Center to use the 70k for their bigger‘Jobs; but it does
mean that the use of the Center by the other New England colleges
will tend to level off to a reasonable load (about one shift, it
now appears) rather than growing continuouslyP as the MIT usage is
doingu This result, of course. is in accord with our conviction
that computers should be as prevalent as chemistry laboratories.

In contrast, the MIT use of the 70k for research into new
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy all
requests for machine time for such work, let alone routine project
calculations of the "productionurun" type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which has
heretofore been reserved for IBM use. In addition to the research
in solidwstate theory, in meteorology and oceanography, which now
depend completely on machine computation and could already use more
time than we can allot them, there are a number of research projects
which are basic to the development of new uses for computers, and,
indeed” to the development of computers themselves, which are already
handicapped by shortage of machine time and limitation of 70%
capacitiesa To mention a few:

Pro rammin Develo ment. The Center staff has already
developeaaan an oua ic opera or routine which is being adopted by
other 704 userso More general assembly programs; such as the
Linking segment Subprogram Loader? which combines Fortranz SAP and
other special codes; COMITE which enables the 704 to be used on
language translation problems; and LISP» which enables the machine
to handle nonanumerical logicg such as algebraic and other symbolic
manipulation” are being developed and tested° The work at MIT in
this field; since whirlwind daysb is well known°

Timeusharlng Teohni neso We already have a typewriter
connectea to the Tang w ich works on a timeasharing basis with our
regular operator routineP so new programs can be debugged at the
same time thatvregular computations are being carried out on other
problemsy for example» The 70% cannot effectively accommodate more
than one or two such satelite channels? but the Center staff is now


a}-

at work on the design and programming required to provide a 7090
with 10 to 30 such "substation consoles" of various effective speeds
and capacitiesg which can be placed at appropriate places around MIT.
some perhaps in classrooms. The ultimate goal is to make the fastest
and most sophisticated computer as accessible and convenient to a
person working with it as a dial telephone is. This development will
‘not only open up new research areasy as indicated later, but also
will substantially simplify and expedite the process of producing

and debugging new programs. We believe all large machines will
eventually use timeasharing techniques in order to achieve their
ultimate capabilities; thus the research now begun at the Center
will be of general benefit to the development of the computer field.

yaohine- ides Education. Computers cans of course, aid in
grading exam na one, EEEEHEIEEg classrooms and students and do
other clerical tasks incidental to large classes. But computers
also can be programmed to carry out some of the detailed question-
andaanswer interchange which occurs in recitation sections. The
Center staff is now working with the Language Department at MIT
to program the 70h to guide a student through some of the phases
of learning a new language, and are discussing the possibilities
of training students in the details of mathematical manipulation by
machinea Here the machine would pose questions for the student to
answer and; on the basis of the answers” would go on to other
questions? as in a recitation section. To avoid intolerable cone
gestion at the main input console (and also waste of computer time)g
several students must be able to work with the machine simultaneouslyg
sharing machine time with regular computation. Therefore further
development or this research will shortly require a flexibility the
704 lacks but the 7090 does possess. Potentially, the use of coma
puters will help to solve the problem of giving individualized
training in the sciences at all levels» without excessive demands
on the’ time or able teachers.

Machineascientist Coo erative Research (Synergyla In
addition to the exampIes BusE mentioned” there are many other research
programs which can only progress effectively if the machine is
able to carry out calculations on immediate demand and display the
result or feed it back immediately into the experimentg so the
experiment or the scientist can go on to the next step and request
the next computation in turnu 0n the 70# this would require the
exclusive use of the machineE though only a fraction of the 704
speed would be used; obviously againp timemsharing techniques are
needed“

These? and many other programs now in progress, such as the
charactererecognition studiesg the research on economic forecasting
and on operational behavior using largewscale simulation techniquesg


4:

should be or particular interest to IBM, for they have direct

bearing on the progress of computer design and utilization. They
represent the sort of cooperative research between experts in

the combination of research and education for which MIT is pre~
eminent. This work deserves support by IBM, in addition to the
educational activities which are already being supported by the
present contribution of the 70¢. They can most effectively be
supported by the installation of a 7090, replacing the 7ou, in

Outlook for the Future: The activities mentioned above
are only a part 0? the research, at MIT and at the associated .
institutions; which desires to use the facilities of the Computation
Center. Obviously no single computing machine can be itself satisfy
indefinitely the continually growing demands from the New England
educational institutions, for all their research and educational

other New England colleges and whichg for the MIT class needs» can
be improved in efficiency by timeesharing techniques; 2) on thesis
research and 3) on Just those aspects of research which advance the

Research programs in other new directions, which involve machine
use (metmurlogyg nuclear reactor design and the like) should only
be supported by the Center by grants of time while they are in the
formative stage” before they are far enough along to be able to
ask for financial supportg for further computationj in their own
right“ By the time they have developed their programs and their

methods by long "production runs?» they should be in a position to
obtain financing to make these runs on one of the several other
similar machines which are or wi 1 be in operation in the vicinityo
Even with this sort of linitation on the uselbf the Center
facilitiesg the demands on the Center will grow” But the growthy
if thus limitedg cany we believeg be handled by the;cooperative
effort of IBM and MITo A 7090 within the year wou1d\not delay most
of the work,outlined above,tooyseriously. And9 as outlined belows
it would be able to handle them for several years, while plans are
made for the next step“ 0n the other handy if a 7099 cannot be

. w


‘5'

provided soon, several of the projects mentioned above will have
to terminate or else will have to use other machines, which would
inevitably mean the dissipation of the Centeris usefulness in
coordinating this sort of research.

It is not intended that the Center should have a monopoly
of all computing around MIT; this would be unrealistic and, as
indicated above, impossible. But it must play an active role in
supporting and instigating research into new applications if it
is to continue to be the focus or new ideas and of exciting activity

which will attract, train and inspire the new generation of
machine experts.

Pro osal: It is proposed that some time during the summer
or fall of I§EU a 7090 be substituted for the present 70“. Details
of the specific equipment to be included are already under disc
cussion with IBM staff. Several data synchronizer channels should
be included, and a disk memory, in addition to a variety or input«
output equipment. In the meantime the Center staff will be preparing
pilot models of the substation, time-sharing consoles, and the
related program modifications so that the time—sharing aspects of
the research can start as soon as possible after the 7090 is
installed° The Center staff will of course continue its close
cooperation with the various IBM research groups, so the design
implications of the time-sharing developments will be available to
these groups as the work progresses, and so that minor changes in
the 7090? to improve substation effectiveness, can be made with
expedition and mutual understanding, either before or after the 7090
is deliveredo

The total load on the 7090, the work or the cooperating
institutions, the class and thesis use and the machinewuse research
discussed above, would initially use more than one shift of machine
time, but probably would not use more than two shifts for the first
yearn Consequently it would be possible for IBM, during the first
year of operation, to utilize the third shift in a manner similar
to what was done on the 70% during its first year of operation.

It is likely that this IBM usage would taper off, as it did with

the 70h, so that as the program outlined above expands, it could
eventually use all three shifts (plus Saturdays); the New England
colleges taking up to one shift, the MIT classroom and thesis work
taking up to another shift, and the nounapplications research taking
up the rest of the time: MIT would supply the operating and
programming staff, in addition to the management and coordination
with other colleges; IBM would supply maintenance, amortization of
building space, support of the research assistantship program and
reimbursement of MITVs expenses in the cooperative program, as it
does at present with the 7040


