a. loco
d. Iolntionohip to houoohold hood
o. Inrltol Itotuo
ln February of ooeh you, on tho othor hnnd, work oxporiouco
dorm; tho provisos you- “ rocordod had in lorch inca-o and
tho ohu-octonottco o! tho Lndludnnl'l fonily u'o rocordod.
Loot Inrch, odueotloo no rocordod for tho “rot t1...
2. lot only no tho Iohtunry and larch quoottonholroo richor
individually, oopocully tho quootionnolroo of “51, but
tho intent-notion on tho throo qunrtoro of tho Innplo Ihlch
porolotl hotwooa ouccooolvo nouthl to collhtod l0 thot wo
howo wu-h oxporlonco, oducot1un, and lace-o u woll u on
oxtohdod lint of donogrophlc vulohloo for nbout 60,000
individual 14 or ovor.
no tmu'th upoct of tho Invootigotion u tho otntlottool
tochniquo to bo nod. 1h:- 1o to conuot pun-rny at hot 1o noontlolly
u nnnlyolo o! vhtluco, though tho octuol conputotlonol procoduro lo I
ton of lultiplo rogrooolon which dooo not uouno linou-ity or ndd1t1v1ty.
'l'ho procodu'o 1o hon; presto-d to:- tho III 104. lurthor doom-lynch
And on llluotrotion uo glvon on pogol 81-33 of tho nttochod popor.
Proloooor went! hu con-out“ to provido hdvico on nun-nu: nnttoro.
loconoo of tho non-diocloouro rogulhtlono govonnng tho Doro-n of
tho Con-no, 1t 1- not poo-lhlo to obtun copioo at tho 1957 hrront Popula-
tion hrvoy tmo rotor-rod to nhooo. lowovor, tho Moon hno indicotod
willin‘nooo to punch cord. tron thooo topoo nccordin‘ to our mettle-tinn-
nd to crooo cluouy tho-o by vorlouo dootrod conhtnotiuo of Devon or
ouht worlohloo. halt-noun ctou-cluoiﬂcntlon by noro than thu
nil-bot of wnnohloo would rooult in too my upty colll. no nJor
diluvontoco 0! thin llnltotlou noy ho nltuotod, howovor, by Juieloully
Ioloctiu tho ocdnnntionl o! vnriohlo- Io thnt thooo hot-o- iueh to
ouhpoct ounlﬂunt intornctlonn nay ho tho-too o1—ltonooooly. In thin
why no noy ovoid tho noooutty of. noon-1n; nddnhtty o! «toot- ﬁoro
tho auntie- upon-I clans-1y umrutod. It to hopod tho: tho lnvoo-
tlgotlon o! tho dltl rotor-rod to on pogoo 22-27 at tho nttoohoo Donor,
which to curroatly undorwny, will throw one light on tho rolntlvo “union-co