III 3.3. 1959

 

Dr. J. '. Carr, 111
Department of Mathematics
University or North corolina
Chapel Hill. North Carolina

Dear Dr. Carr:

Last summer vireo i no at indicett at the in! emrerence
tor Directors of University computing Centers, 1 was asked to do
some thinking about organizing further meetings of Directors at
these Centers and, in tact, whether it would he appropriate tor
such Directors to organize themselves into a 10ml or informal
society. 1 have hesitated for some time as to what action is
appropriate, partly because I an mildly opposed to proliferating
additional societies or conventions and, partly because I have been
extremely busy this year. It was, however, suggested that a meeting
or people interested in this general field night he arranged either
before or atter the AC! meeting here this fall. A recent talk with
the local Program Comittee for this meeting, however, discouraged
this action and 1 an BOIOI‘II.‘ at a loss as to where to go next.
consequently, I an writing tor your advice.

It is pertectly true that the Directors or university
computing centers have problems Which are not touched on in the
present AC! meetings or in other computer meetings. They are, ct
course. more in the nature or administrative problems, although
these certainly can be real. Whether they-mould begvhelped by
having occasional meetings at which these problems can be discussed
or whether they can be taken care of adequately by informal discus-
sion at neetings such as the ACM, 1 am not sure. It is possible, it
only occasional meetings would be useful , that the National Science
Foundation world be willing to be of financial help. What is needed,
however. is some indication from you who are directing university
computing centers as to the need for such a meeting and the possible
agenda, if it is needed. There is to be an Eastern computer Conference
in Cambridge later in the year. This meeting could be scheduled
near it, if such action seemed appropriate. 0n the other hand, there
may he advantages in meetings separate from such large convoclttnns

at some quiet spot where we could talk things over at leisure. Or,
of course, we should not meet at all.