[-‘ r
>

e .
ey
s
;o‘ ..‘ -~
')':' Sr
-

ey 5.
B, ;

e

 

Dr. Alan T. Waterman

  

throughout the goar whenever we have time, Last summer we tried
::k%ng on some rigﬁt high school seniors, Next summer we'd like
Ty more, |

2e aid gggggggh, About 150 research problems are
now currenté%ﬁ;%hc | 1@ == will average nearer ZSO‘h{ spring
if we can take the man-hours to work up 2 program to have the -lchinn
do its own scheduling and bookkeeping and if we can get the special
input equipment which will enable us to connect directly from
experiment to machine, without human Cranscription, We calculated
sputnik orbits, we are computing weather, the strains in concrete
shells, and nuclear scattering; every problem needed help in planning
the calculation, We are coding the machine to play chess, are
helping test out machine translation from German to English and will
be engaged in teaching the 704 to read blueprints as soon as we can
buy the eguipment to attach to our CRO output. One third of the
present 150 research problems are for peogle at the other New Ergland
universities, Dartmouth, Brown, Boston College, Harvard. We could
do more 1f we had more staff; we may have to do less unless we can
get your support again next year.

3. As an.ad]g%gt to a speeific research project. I could
write up the blueprint reading project itserif, for our staff will
have to do most of the work on it; or else the part we'll do in
the language translation project; or else the simulation of the
economic behavior of a small New England town, or the proposal to
program the machine to do algebra (what it now does, of course, is
arithmetic). But I wouldn't like to do this, for 1t would freeze
the stalff, or part of it, to that specific project, and I much
prefer having them avallable to help anyone who comes in with a
bright ldea -- tThen when the idea gets along a way the other people
involved can go out to get money for a provede-out project and our
staff can turn to helping someone else with a bright idea., That's
the way more than half our good projects start.

4, Or we can charge every person who comes to use the
machine, for staff consulting time inecluding all the KSF projects,
hereabouts, which need machine time., And this I like least, for
i€ will be toughest on the poor thesis students and faculty members
from the small colleges - and these people are likely to have more
bright ldeas than the big projects who can afford the charge. 1
figured it out, the charge would come to F100 per hour of machine
time, or more. This would add to the budget of quite a few NSF
projects.

Of course I could just say, "Look, I've run a good many
research projects and I think I know how to get results in terms of
research output and trained men. I've started a few labs and