‘mechine computation and to minimize duplication of effort,

 

| | MIT COMPUTATION CENTER
| Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

. Jaf
QUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORT
To 3 Users of Computation Center Facilities Date: March 14, 1958
From: Dr. F. ¥. Verzul

Subject: Quarterly Progress Report for the Period January 1 - March 31, 1958

— Cr —— dt S51

Each quarter the MIT Computation Center must report to its sponsors on
the use of the Center facilities, the nature of problems using the machines,
their progress towards solution and, after completion, the way in which the
results were employed, These data are also made available to all present and
future users by means of the Semi-Annual Reports eminating from the Center.
These reports help to accelerate the development of improved techniques of

————— RE —

To help us prepare our quarterly progress report, will you kindly fill
out the attached PROGRESS REPORT FORM and return it to:

Dr. Frank M, Verzuh
MIT COMPUTATION CENTER
Room 26-142

on or before Monday, March 31, 1958.

The attached progress report form serves a dual purpose:

1. It provides valuable information for the operation of the Center.
2. It contains your written progress report which may be included in
the SEMI-ANNUAL Progress Report.

Your Progress Report should be typewritten in FINAL form for direct inclusion
in the SEMI-ANNUAL Report.

In the case of completed problems -- those in which the programmer has
completed his use of the 704 Computer -- the Center must receive a FINAL report
from the programmer. In accordance with the terms of the PROBLEM FORM (CCF-3a},
which you have received, 704 machine time is allocated separately for each
guarter; no further machine time will bo allocated for this problem unless this
guestionnaire is answered and returned on time. Please fill out the attached
questionnaire indicating the amount of time desired, if any, during the forth-
coming term. Since all present time allotments expire on March 31, it is
important that we hear from you.

Sincerely yours,

7
2 [ \ oe /
= 3 “NN \ Js } -
: 74 | i) 2 pe / /
=1 M. Ve uh EAR

FHV/be Assistant Director (/

Enc: Quarterly Report Questionnaire

CCF-8 oi


