e

offeredi?) Panel Chairman, A.W.Wymore, Univ.of Arizona; Co-
charman, E.L.Buell, Worcester Polytechnic Inst,.

3, Budget and Administration.(how should a Center be
financed and what should be its place in the university admine-
istration?) Panel Chairman, VW.J.Viavant, Univ.of Oklahoma.

4, Computing Service to the University (how should computer
time be aldkocated to potential users; what sort of priority
system should be set up and how should it be administered?)
Panel Czhairman, T.A.Keenen, Univ.of Rochester; Co-~chairman,
D.R.Shreve, Oklahoma State Univ.

5. Government Relations (how shiduld the goveriment agencies
be charged for computing time done for government-suppoBted
projects at the university?) Panel Chairman, S.Gorn, Univ. of
Pennsylvania, Co-chairman, A.J.Perlis, Carnegie Inst. of Tech,

On the evening of the second day and on the tiird day
each Parmsl Chairman reported his Panel's conclusions to the whole
Conference, for further comment, modification and possijle rat-
ification. The Panel reports and a resume of the discuision at
the final plenary sessions are given in Appendices D to i, inc,

GENERAT, CONCLUSIONS,

Computer Science is a new scientific field and Coiputing
Centers are recent additions to institutes of higher learn ng,
This was the first conference to discuss in detail curriculs
related to computer science, as well as the administrative ind
financial problems of computing centers in universities.
Undourbtedly the greatest value of the meeting was in the inier-
change of ideas between the participants, each learning how
others had solved their problems, Of cdurse there were many
different points of view and many disaggrecements on details,
Some of these points of view are reported in Appendices D to H,

On a number of basic plicy questions, however, there
wags virtual unaninity. ©Since these agreed=on conclusions rep=
resent the combined experience of the majority of the Directors
of University Computing Centers in this country, they are set
dovm here, in the hope that they will be useful to other