7.0

Conclusion

Besults of the Besting at the Hilitary Providence Division - 545 Eadison Ave.

 

¥r, Tom Daley and Er, Bill Feulin-¥Fegner were sppointed by
¥r, Pcyson Hunter to discuss the sguip=ent requiresments which IBM is to
provide in the new HIT Computation Center. Verzuh presented a 13-point
checzlist Zor consideration by Hessrs. Daley and Neulin- , respectively,
These gentlement indicated that they would srrange to visit EIT the last
week in November to prepare smon-the-spot list of equipm=ent needed for the
Computation Center. It must be e=phasized that this list is the list of
equipment which IBM will be providing in the 704 room, reception room,
customer engineering room, EAM area, dark room, IBE-N,.E. assistantship and
associateship area, IBM office ares, etc. :

COnference‘gg,Transeeiver Requirements 33.590 ¥Madison Avenue

Verzuh inspected the two {ransceivers which were instailed at
590 Hadison Avenue for the HBC transceiver nation-wide hookup. Based on
this inspection, it was apparent that we should request that a 4-wire
Bell System circuit be installed in the MIT Computation Center to provide
the necessary telephone connection between Cambridge, Poughkespsie, and
Hew York, respectively. A detailed specification of the transceiver required
has been given both to Dr, Truman HBunter, Cambridge, and the Poughkeepsie
and Bell Tele hone representatives, respectively.

v

The IBM engineering representatives from Poughkeepsie indicated
that they neecded several weeks to study amnd design the necessary double
flsngers, etc., circuits which are needed on the six 704 units. As soon as
they have completed this study, they will arrange to contact Syska & Hennessy
in New York, have the 8 & B Group visit Poughkeepsie to definitely insure
that there is no misunderstanding regarding the commitments of either party
as far as installation of the equipment is concerned, In this connection,
the IBM representatives indicated that they estimate a 10 db reduction in the
noise level in the 704 room if the blowers are removed. e

Inspection of the detailed flocor plans of the 704 revealed that
there were a number of emors in the dimensions of the holes underneath the
key units, Specifically, in certain areas the dimensions were so indicated
that if the steel plates were cut, certaim units would fall into the steel
floor. As a result of this discovery, Collins notified Cambridge to immediately
stop cutting plates to avoid any errors im hole size and dimension, respectively,.