Contract NSori-60, Task Order I

(3/26/52

Amenduent L.o.
(12/25/52)

Avendment lNo.
(4/26/53)

16

18

1y

    

"(%) theoretical studies and experimental research and development
in connection with the application of digitel computers in en air
defense system in which information is transmitted o

from remote radar stations and processed by the aqmr,toh
condnected during the period 1 July 1951 to 31 December 1951.%

It is the desire of the Govermwent end the Centractor that additional

regearch in applied mathematics utilizing facilities in Contractor's
Center for Machines Computation, including the WHIRILWIND computer,

and the applicetion of the facilities to military and scientific prob-

lems, be performed. To accomplish this, there are therby provided

an extension in the period of performance of Task Order I undex

Contract MWori-f0 and an increase in the estimoted cost thereof.

Tt ie the desire of the Covermment and the Contractor that, during

a ceytain part of the remaining term of Task Order I under Contract
NSori-o0, which provides for research in applied mathematics utilizing
facilities in the Contracitor's Center for Machine Computation, including
the WHIRLWIND cowputer, and the gpplication of the faeclilities to
militexry and scientific problems, provision be made for au increase in
the wolume of the Contractor'l operations undey said Task Order beyond
that heretofore contemplated.

It ie the desire of the Goverurent and the Contrector that additional
reseaych in applied mathematice wtilizing facilities in the coutraetor' e
Center for Machine Computation, includiag the WHIRLWIND computer, and

the applieatiou of the i’acilities t0 military and scientific problems,
be performed. To accomplish this, there are hereby provided an ex-
tension in the period of performance and an increase in the estimated
cost of Task Order I under Coatract NSori-60.

Amendment No. 23

(6/30/55)

Amendmwent NO.
(&/20/56)

Siace it is the desire of the Government and the Contractor that the
regearch under Task Order I of Contract NSori-60 be continued pending
the availsbility of funds for additional ryesearch to be conducted, it
hag been determined to extend the period of performance of esald

Task Order.

2l

It 18 the desire of the Government and the Contractor that additional
research in spplied mathematics utklizing facilities in the Contractor's

Center for Machine Computation, including the WHIRILWIND computer, and
the application of the facilities of military and scientific probleus,

be performed. To accomplish this, there are hereby provided an ex-

tension in the period of performence and an increase in the estimated
cost of Task Order I under Contract NSori-60.