ol vm

Detailed infermation rogazding the sbove nine experimenis was given
to the students by means of a writion set of notes (230 pages) which were
written as reference notes zund experiment notes, respectively. In sdditien to
‘the sabove nine oxperiments, twe laboratory experiments were devoted to the uge
of punched card eguipment. Specifically, one on the card punch, sorter, and
tabulator, and the second on the Card Programmed Calculator, respectively. The
class lectures were primarily devoted to a discussion of basic construction of
digital computers, and their use in the solution of scientific computations
sncountered in the solution of simultaneous algebraic eguations, inversion of
matrices, solution of ordimary differential equations, etc.

Beccuse of the availability of the Type 650 Magnetic Drum Calculator,
it was decided that the subject conteat of 6.538 should be revised considerably.
AcCordingly, during the Spring Term 1956 all of the above-mentioned electrounic
oxperiments were deleted from the subject content and the subject was devoted
entirely to the application and use of digitel computing equipment. The
students were taught the basic principles of digital computers by performing
experimonts on card punches, sorters, accounting machines, the Card Programmed
Calculator, and the Type 650 Magnetic Drum Cslculator. The principle emphasis
was actugslly devoted to a study of the use of the 650 machine in the solution
of "scientific and business data processing problems

Students were taught to program the CH0 by becoming familiar with
the basic 650 language. After the basic language was understood, they were
taught the tollow:l.ng interpretive syston&~

1. MITSS MIT Selective Systen
- 2. MITILIAC FLOATIRG DECIMAL Interpretive-mmemonic coding (1600)

3. NOPX Fixed and Floating Interpretive-numeric coding (G00)
4, SOAP Symbolic Optimal Assembly Program

5. FLIMSY Floating Interpretive Matyrixz System (815)

G. BTL Fixed and Floating Interpretive-numeric coding (1000)

It is obvious that the students wexe not able to become completely familiay with
211l of the above systems. All students instructed now understand the 6350
langusge, MITSS, and MITILAC. However, only certain students became fLamiliar .
with each of the other systens depending upon their particular intersst.

The following ligt of homewnrk and experinents were performed during
this subject:

i. Problem 1 - Laboratory use of the Type 026 Card Punch and
Type 082 Sortier

The student spends two hours in the laboratory using the .
cayd punch and sorter to prepare and sort several hundred
IB8 punched cards, thus insuring complete familiarity with
these two machines. :