—————— — M

-He

Facilitles: The MIT Computation Center will have a Type TOb
Electronic Data Processing Machine with the following machine
complement: 12 mwagnetic tape units, 2 magnetic CORE storage units
containing a total of 8,000 words, 1 magnetic drum unit containing
4,000 words of storage, the usual on-line punched card reader,
alphabetic printer, and punched card recorder as well as the 3
off-line magnetic tape controlled printer, magnetic tape controlled
card punch, and punched card-to-magnetic tape converter, respectively.
In addition tc the 704, there will be 10 auxiliary punched card
machines including card punchea, collators, sorters, reproducers,
interpreters, and the Type 407 Accounting Machine. The aggregate

?gﬁﬁine rental, in excess of Z50,000 per month, will be donated by

- The Type 704 EDPM unit is one of the fastest large-scale
commercial computers available today. Since the MIT installation
will be but one of many in the field, technigues, programs, and 53
numerical procedures developed for this machine will be of use to
others having access to 704 equipment.

DTl R T T i L Wl el A N ML} e BT B A U T D Sl B AT Gt T e BT L it Lk A LE ST BB sk oyl D

Personnel: Superviso and Administrative Personnel Associated with
the ?roJect

Princigal Investigator to be Professor Philip M. Morse,
Director of the Computation Center. He has been in contact with

computing problems during his career in theoretical physics sBince
1930, and with the use of computing equipment since the first Bush
differentlal analyzer was available at MIT in 1936. He got his
Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1929 and has been at MIT since
1931, with occasional leaves of absence. His publications include
the books "Quantum Mechanics" (with E. U. Condon) 1930, "Vibration
and Sound" 1936, "Methods of Operations Research" (with G. E. Kimball)
1950, and "Methods of Theoretical Physica" (with Herman Feshbach)
1953, and about a hundred Jjournal articles, many of which give re-
sults obtalined from machine computation. For further biographic
details, see "Who's Who." Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Professor F. B. Hildebrand has been teaching and conducting
research in numerical analysis in the Mathematics Department at MIT
since 1938. He got his Ph.D. in Mathematics from MIT in 1940. He
is the author of three texts: "Advanced Calculus for Engineers"
(1949), "Methods of APplied Mathematics" (1952) and "Introduction
to Numerical Analysis" (1956) as well as a number of articles in
various research Journals. Only a fraction of his salary will be
charged to the Project.

Dean N. Arden, who has been a member of the Whirlwind
Programming Research Group for three years, has been head of the
group since July 1955 and who will head the programming research