April 13, 1959

Professor L. V. Kantoravich
Computation Center
University of Leningrad
Leningrad

J. 8. 8. R.

Dear Professor Kantorovich:

I am writing to invite you to give a series of ten lectures on your work and that
of your coileagues in the Soviet Union in the areas of linear programming,
functional analysis, and zutomatic programming of the "Prorab' type, here at
the University of North Carolina from August 17-28. You could lecturs in either
Russian or/(preferably for us) English.

I am also inviting Dr. Ershov of the Academy of Sciences Computation Center
to give a similar series of lectures on automatic programming {rom the point of
view of "programming programs' for the Strela and BESM, and the theoretical

work going on in this area that has, for example, been published in Problemy
Kibernetiki.

You will be paid the standard honorarium for vour lectures ($1,000), plus money
for expenses in the United States ($200), for 2 total of $1200. Out of this you
will have to pay U. S. income taxes which will amount to less than $100. You
would be expected to furnish your own transportation between the U, 5. S. R.
and New York aad return.

Your visit will be so timed that you will be abls to attend with me and Professor
Perlis of Carnegie Tech the National issociation for Computing Machinery meeting
to be held in Cambridge, Massachusetts on September 1, 2, and 3. As you note,
since last fall | have lefi yan Arbor to become Director of our new Center here.

I am sending copies of this letter and the invitation to Dr. Ershov also to
Academicians Dorodnitsin and Lebedev. If it should happen that you and they would
be interested in attendance of three or four persons rather than just you and

Dr. Ershov, I would be pleased to hear further irom you and them.

The University of North Carolina will have installed on its campus at the time of
this conference a copy of the Univac 1105 computer now being used by the Bureau
of Census in the processing of the 1960 U. S. Ceasus. There is also now present
a Royal McBee LGP-30 Librascope computer on the campus.