*cuts in the mutual security bill.
~ Let me say that I am glad to see that
o the Senator from Louisiana has just re-

 
  
   

o

in the case of one of the proposed cuts.
fter that amendment was agreed to,
here was a record vote of the members
f the committee on the question of re-
orting the bill to the Senate; and every
member of the committee expept the
Senator from Louisiana was to be re-
_corded in that connection. Therefore,
I exercised the judgment which I
~ thought the premises called for, in view
. of the fact that we had been successful
~ in having the amendment agreed to. So
I voted his proxy in favor of reporting
 the bill to the Senate.
- But I wish to make very clear that al-
e though the committee has voted to re-
‘port the bill to the Senate, it does not
=5 necessarily follow that the- Senator from
"~ TLouisiana, any more than the Senator
from Oregon, agrees with every part of
~ the mutual security bill. In fact, this
5 afternoon I am filing my objections to
~ certain parts of the mutual security bill;
- and, as a member of the Foreign Rela-
~ tions Committee, I shall submit amend-
‘ments of my own on the floor of the
Senate. :
I make this statement to the Presiding
*~Oﬁicer (Mr. ProxMIRE in the chair) in
_partxcula,r, because he has just submitted
~ some amendments, and has done so on
~ the basis of a principle with which I
~agree, namely, that a showing must be
-~ made in connection with the criteria the
 Senator from Wisconsin has laid down.
- _ 1 think the criteria of the Senator
~ from Wisconsin are sound; and in my
~ judgment a showing must be made to
 justify spending even $1 of the tax-

  

  

  

  

        
    
   
    
         
    
   
   
    
    
     
   
     
       
       
       
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
    
    

...,.._
N3 AR RN

 
   

X

TR

PRI
7L T tb.).

Y

RN, S
r??c'“

!

anywhere in the world.

jections to the mutual security bill is
based on my belief that the bill does not
sufficiently pinpoint what, in fact, should
be congressional objections to sending
money to support dictators in South
America.
_ Although one of the amendments was
agreed to by the committee—and T was
glad to see at least that one amendment
agreed to—in my judgment the bill is not
yet sufficiently strong.
. However, in fairness to the Senator
from Louisiana, I thought I should make
this statement, because he also has ob-
jections to the bill. Let me say that I
i exercised his proxy under the conditions
=3 which I have just explained to the
> Senate. The Recorp should show that
the Senator from Louisiana was willing
to have the bill reported to the Senate,
but that does not mean that he likes all
aspects of the bill. In fact, I understand
that he does not like many of them.
Therefore, I make this explanation,
because if any person in Louisiana were
to interpret my exercise of his proxy as
an indication that the Senator from
Louisiana favors all features of the bill, I
wish to' state that my exercise of his
proxy does not mean that he supports the
bill in toto.

 

A e "‘"w\\
g LA

‘~;‘ s i b s s

i!ﬁ‘\l;ia\ .

 

   
    
   
    
   
    
     
   
   
    
    
   
 
     
    
     
   
   
   
     
      
    
   
    

ats W oposed the makmg of
ents hi?h propo the Senator from Oregon yield to me?

In the committee we were successful

payers’ money in support of a dictator

As my colleagues know, one of my ob-

Mr MANSFIELD - Mr. President will

Mr. MORSE. I yield.

Mr. MANSFIELD. As I 1eca11 the
Senator from Oregon, at the suggestion

f other members of the committee, weng
into an anteroom and telephoned the

Senator from Louisiana at the hospital

at Bethesda, to inquire how his vote
should be recorded on the question of
marking up the bill.

Mr. MORSE. That is correct.

T also wish to make clear that in my
conversation with the Senator from
Louisiana, I did not receive the specific
instructions I wish I had obtained in re-
gard to how to exercise his proxy on the
question of the final vote in the com-
mittee.. But I am satisfied that when I
did vote his proxy in the way I have

stated, I voted in accordance with his

wish to have the bill come to the floor of
the Senate.

I understand that the Senator from
T.ouisiana wishes to have the bhill come
before the Senate, but that when it is
brought up on the floor, he intends to
submit some amendments to it.

Mr. LONG. Mr. President, I thank

‘the Senator from Oregon for voting my
proxy in favor of the amendment which

was submitted in the committee.
However, I wish to make clear that I
shall not be in support of the bill on the
question of its final passage, unless I
hear some arguments in addition to the
ones I have already .-heard during the
past 8 years in favor of this program.
Mr. BIBLE. Mr. President, let me
join the Senator from Oregon in welcom-

ing the distinguished Senator from .

Louisiana [Mr. LonG] back to the floor.

 

THE IMPORTANCE OF ACTION ON
THE MUTUAL SECURITY  ACT
OF 1958—ADDRESS BY SENATOR
WILEY

Mr. WILEY. Mr. Pre31dent on this
very day the Senate Committee on For-
eign Relations is reporting the vital
Mutual Security Act of 1958, This im-~
portant bill will be coming up for action
in the Senate very shortly. In my judg-
ment, favorable action on it is indispen-
sable in the national interest, and in the
interest of the free world.

If the Senate shall pass it, it will pro=-
vide the sort of consfructive headline
which will be the best answer to the
disturbing headlines which we see based
upon news dispatches from so many
parts of the world.

As we watch disturbing developments
in France, in Algeria, in Indonesia, in
South America, there is often a feeling,
“If only we could do something—with-
out interfering—which would help meet
these challenges to the free world.”

There is something we can definitely
do. It is not an act of interference; it is
the enlightened act of the leading nation
of the free world, the partner of the free
world. It is an act for aid, but more
important, it is an act of great psycho-
logical significance, for we can help
pour much-needed oil on troubled wa-
ters by passage of the bill which is being
reported today.

enacted substantially A ts Dr

form, thanks to wise blpartisan

ter still, nonpartisan accord.
If, however, we were to make the- m

take of changing it substantially by
if we were to
emasculate it, instead of pouring oil on

harmful amendment,

troubled waters, we would instead be

pouring oil and then lighting a match

to the oil. ,

I am certain that we will do no such
thing.

Year after year, the Congless of the
United States has risen with statesman-

ship to the challenge of mutual security

before it. -

Year after year, we have demonstrated
our increasing understanding of the
facts of the atomic age; the shrunken
world in which jets will soon be crossing
the Atlantic in 6 hours and in which mis-
siles will soon be capable of being fired
over the roof of the world in less than
30 minutes.

Last Saturday, it was my privilege to
address the convention of the Republican
Party of my State. At that time I
pointed out the facts of the atomic age
as they affect Wisconsin and America.

On Sunday, by taped transcription, it
was my privilege to deliver a broadcast
over station WIND, Chicago. At that
time I stated that the Mutual Security
Act is the best antidote to the anti-
American demonstrations which have
occurred in several areas of the world.

I ask unanimous consent that the text
of my address over Station WIND be
printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the address
was ordered to be prmted in the RECORD,
as follows:

“ANTI-AMERICAN DEMONSTRATIONS CALL FOR
REDEDICATION TO CAUSE OF LIBERTY AND
FrEEDOM," SAYS SENATOR WILEY—CITES MU~
TUAL SECURITY AS Cons'ranc'rxvs REMEDY FOR
WorLD TURMOIL
My friends, it is a great pleasuré‘tor me to

participate in this series of congressional re-

.\

-—

view broadcasts. I appreciate the opportu=

nity afforded me by station WIND to join you
and discuss current congressional activities.

well be one of the-most important in recent
years. The problems we are discussing are of
vital importance to every citizen of our
Nation. America is in a struggie for her very
survival. In this battle we are not alone.
The entire free world is threatened with de=-
struction. We are faced by an opposing
philosophy which has as its announced pur-
pose the overthrow and annihiation of dem-

ocratic systems of government, both here -

in the United States, and in other nations
where liberty is cherished. It is our respon-
sibility to counteract this threat with a con-
structive program which will make America
more secure, and which will insure the rights
and privileges of freedom-loving people
throughout the world. This is the job which
is facing America today. This is what Con-
gress is striving to do in the current session.

Question. Senator WiLEY, in recent weeks
we have seen many outbursts of anti-Amer-
jcanism in widespread areas of the world.
What has been the reaction in Congress to
these Incidents?

Answer. We are all, of course, highly con=-
cerned about incidents of antidemocratic
feeling during the past few months.

We .

- As you know, this session of Congress may = :;. ‘\.