NATIONAL SECURITY POLICY RESEARCH

William T. R. Fox (chairman), Herbert Goldhamer,
Henry A. Kissinger, Richard W. Leopold, G. A. Lincoln,
John W. Masland, Arthur Smithies, Harold Stein; staff,
Bryce Wood.

As one way of encouraging research and furthering com-
munication among scholars concerned with its field, the
committee has planned a summer seminar, to be held at
Dartmouth College in July and August 1958, under the
chairmanship of Laurence I. Radway, Associate Professor
of Government at Dartmouth. The other participants will
include Lewis ]. Edinger, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, Michigan State University; Martin R. R. Goldman,
Educational Specialist, Headquarters Air Force RIOTE.C:
Air University; Fred Greene, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, Williams College; Abbott C. Greenleaf, Depart-

ment of Social Sciences, U. S. Military Academy; Paul Y,
Hammond, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Yale
University; Samuel P. Huntington, Assistant Professor of
Government, Harvard University; William W. Kaufmann,
RAND Corporation; Louis Morton, Chief, Pacific Section,
and Deputy Chief Historian, Department of the Army;
Robert E. Osgood, Assistant Professor of Political Science,
University of Chicago; and Glenn H. Snyder, Lecturer and
Research Associate in Public Law and Government,
Columbia University.

An exploratory discussion of possibilities for advancing
economic research on national security was held at the
initiative of the committee in New York on January 31 -
February 1, under the chairmanship of Klaus Knorr, Pro-
fessor of Public and International Affairs, Princeton
University.

PERSONNEL

DIRECTORS OF THE COUNCIL

The following persons have been designated by the seven
national social science organizations associated with the
Council to serve as directors of the Council for the three-
year term 1958-60:

Fred Eggan, University of Chicago, by the American
Anthropological Association

R. A. Gordon, University of California, by the American
Economic Association

Louis Gottschalk, University of Chicago, by the Ameri-
can Historical Association

Earl Latham, Ambherst College, by the American Political
Science Association

Wayne H. Holtzman, University of Texas, by the Ameri-
can Psychological Association

Conrad Taeuber, Bureau of the Census, by the American
Sociological Society

Philip J. McCarthy, Cornell University, by the American
Statistical Association

The credentials of the new members are scheduled for ac-
ceptance by the board of directors of the Council at its
spring meeting in New York on March 22-23, 1958.

SENIOR AWARDS FOR RESEARCH
ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

The Committee on Grants for Research on Governmental
Affairs—William Anderson, Robert E. Cushman, Dean E.
McHenry, Elmer B. Staats, and Benjamin F. Wright—at its
meeting on November 19, 1957, made the first awards under
the new five-year program announced in Items, June 1957.
Grants providing freedom for self-directed research and
writing on aspects of governmental affairs of interest to the

individual scholar have been accepted by the following for
the academic year 1958-59:

Rowland Egger, Chairman, Woodrow Wilson Depart-
ment of Foreign Affairs, University of Virginia, for
research on the changing institutional role of the
Presidency.

Charles McKinley, Professor of Political Science, Reed
College, for research on public administration of land
and water resources.

Emmette S. Redford, Professor of Government, University
of Texas, for research on the decision-making process
as reflected in regulation of economic enterprise.

Clarence E. Ridley, formerly Executive Director, Interna-
tional City Managers’ Association, for research on the
limitations and responsibilities of city managers in
policy determination.

GRANTS FOR RESEARCH ON THE
NEAR AND MIDDLE EAST

The Committee on the Near and Middle East—T. Cuyler
Young (chairman), Hamilton A. R. Gibb, J. C. Hurewitz,
Majid Khadduri, William D. Schorger, Wilfred C. Smith—
at its meeting on December 13, 1957, made the first awards
under the new three-year program of grants for social science
research in its field to the following 6 persons:

Willard A. Beling, Ph.D. in Near Eastern Studies,
Princeton University, and Industrial Relations Re-
search Supervisor, Arabian American Oil Company, for
research in several Near Eastern countries on the de-

velopment and nature of the labor movement in the
Arab Near East.

Wayne Dennis, Professor of Psychology, Brooklyn College,
for research in Lebanon, Egypt, Iraq, and Iran on Near
Eastern children’s views of the world.

Sydney N. Fisher, Professor of History, Ohio State Uni-
versity, for research in Turkey on the place and de-
velopment of democracy in Turkey since 1923.