FUR lNFﬁiéyEiaTEﬁa’i tidy

/
DEPAB'W‘T OF THE NAVY
OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH
WASHINGTEON 25, D. C.
CONTRACT NUMBER: N59ri-60 omis6102FAGggc
AMBIENT NUMBER: 17 . N50ri—60
Massachusetts Institute of Technology [pap/6'“:-

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts 3 W’

In accordance with current statutory and departmental requirements, Contract 115011—60,
as amended, is hereby further amended. by deleting specified Sections and by adding
the following new Sections which shall be effective with respect to task orders and
task order amendments executed thereunder as of a date on or after the date of this
amendment; and, with respect to said task orders and amendments thereto, the Nondis-
crimination in Employment, Patent Rights, Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent
Infringement, Filing of Patent Applications and Authorization and Consent sections
set forth below shall supersede sections 18, 19 and 20, 30, 35 and 37, respectively,
of said contract. Any references to said superseded sections wherever contained in
said contract and the task orders thereunder shall be deemed to refery instead, to
the appropriate section set forth below insofar as said task orders and. amendments
thereto executed as of a. date on or after the date of this amendment are concerned;
provided, however, that none of the followirg sections and deletions hereunder shall
be construed to affect any rights of the Government or the Contractor heretofore
established.

16 Effective as of the date of this amendment, delete section 38 in its
entirety“

2n Effective as of the date of this amndmnty add the following new sections:
“SECTION 39. NONDISGRMNA‘MON IN IMPLOYMENT

“(a) In connection with the performance of work under this con-
tract, the Contractor agrees not to discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race , religion 3 color, or national
origin, The aforesaid provision shall include, but not be limited to ,
the following: employment, upgrading? demotion, or transfe- ; recruit-
ment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or
other forms of compensation; and selection for training} including
apprenticeship. The Contractor agrees to post lereﬁter in conspicuous
places, available for employees and applicants for employmnt, notices
to be provided by the Contracting Officer setting forth the provisions
of the nondiscrimination clauseo

"(h) The Contractor further agrees to insert the foregoing
provision in all subcontracts hex/Founders except subcontracts for
standard commercial supplies or raw materialso