MEMORANDUM TO: Mrs Joseph Snyder

FROM: He Re Boyd
DATE: November 7, 1952
SUBJECT: Rockefeller Differential an er (RDA

ABSTRACT

A request for clarification of responsibility in the
future use of the RDA by the Instrumentation Laboratory.
Included are statements of the Instrumentation Labora=
tory need for RDA for at least two years to satisfy
obligations to government sponsors; a summary of use
during the past two years and recommendations for
future usage. Appendices include details of usage and
fiscal charges for the past two years; a list of future
work to be done; a technical description of the calibra=
tion problem and copies of pertinent memoranda,

Section 1,0 INTRODUCTION

This memorandum is addressed to you in the belief that your
current responsibilities include the RDAs I have taken the liberty of
sending copies to Prof. Floe, Prof, Morse, Dr. F. L. Foster, Mr. J. Little
and Mr, F, Watriss, with whom I have recently discussed the situation.
Several factors indicate that now is an appropriate time to ask for a
clarification of responsibility in the future use of the RDA, These
factors include Mr. Verzuh's desire to clarify his position, the resigna-
tion of Mrs. Hogan, veteran operator of the RDA, differences in opinion
on the charging for non-Instrumentation Laboratory usage, and the current
interest in the Statistical Services of Mr. Little and Mr, Watriss,

Section 2,0 RESPONSIBILITY!

Instrumentation Laboratory members believe that they assumed
complete responsibility for RDA operation on October 1, 1950, This situa
tion was the result of the Institute's decision to close down the RDA
permanently in June of 1950, Since the Instrumentation Laboratory had
work requiring the analyzer which Dr, Draper felt obligated to carry on,
we assumed all costs. This included transferring 3 machinists, 1 techni=
cian, and the Chief Operator, Mrs, Hogan, to our Payroll; and purchasing

 

——————————————————————————————— —————————— — a ——————————————————————————————————— CS ———

1 The following statement is extracted from the Provost's memo of January 1,

1951, establishing the Committee on Machine Methods of Computation: "This
year the Department of Aeronautical Engineering through the Instrumentation
Laboratory has assumed responsibility for the operation of the Differential
Analyzer,"


a

all machine shop stock and RDA spare parts (total cost $2970). We alse
agreed to finish a vector table to complete RDA obligations to another
Air Force contract. However, we have never handled all of the charges

to noneInstrumentation Laboratory users because of limited understanding
of our authority. Both Prof. Morse's Committee on Computation and Mr.
Verzuh have worked most coeperatively with us in making decisions, but

we have not pressed our views where honest differences of opinion existed,
The RDA performance of our work has been so excellent and Mr. Verzuh has
worked so hard in our interest that it would have been very unfair to have
done otherwise, However, there is still some confusion in our minds as te
the proper charging for non-Instrumentation Laboratory usage. Also, Mrs.
Hogan's resignation and Mr, Verzuh's possible shift of responsibility are
additional factors that make it necessary to understand the responsibility
clearly so that changes can be made as needed and approved by the proper
persons. Unclear separation between RDA and Statistical Services and con-
tinued use of the old Electrical Engineering Department account #2349 for
RDA would seem to be the basis for any differences of opinion that exist
on fiscal matters.

Section 3,0 INSTRUMENTATION LABORATORY REGUIREMENTS FOR RDA

Calibration for new ammunitions and tactics of sights designed by
Dre Draper and now in service require use of the RDA, In addition, our
current contract calls for development of improved sights, and the solution
of the kinematic equations involved require use of RDA,

The machine is unique in its demonstrated capability, and all
proposed alternatives have either failed to handle the problem or are yet
to be demonstrated, Past efforts have been made with Harvard's Computation
Laboratory; current efforts are attempting to apply Whirlwind to the problem.
Instrumentation Laboratory is devoting the effort of two full-time engineers
to devising and testing other machine methods,

In the meantime, we feel that in order to execute our current
obligations, we must have the continued use of the RDA, In the absence of
& definite proven alternate, we are very anxious to be assured of the use
of the analyzer for at least two years. It is further suggested that the
situation be reviewed at the end of the year, at which time more information
on alternate methods should be available, Appendix C contains a more detailed
description of the technical phases of the calibration problem.

Section 4.0 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE USE

1, Reassign primary responsibility to the Instrumentation Laboratory.

2e Have Mr, Po Cusick approve fiscal arrangements for non-Instrumenta=-
tion Laboratory work. Proper billing can be handled very simply.
All Instrumentation Laboratory persons are now charged te DIC #6346
and allocated out at the end of the month, according to information

La
BE ——..., i.-


wien |

supplied on each time sheet. Time sheet statements regarding ; |
non-Instrumentation Laboratory usage could be used by our budget
section as the basis for billing other users, Our authority for a
such charges would come from purchase orders submitted to either |
our pre ject or DIC, :

3, Continue the current arrangement of having Prof. Morse advise us
on the types of non-Instrumentation Laboratory work, which should
be performed on RDA from a technical standpoint.

 

 

Le Continue present practice of having all RDA personnel considered
an Instrumentation Laboratory responsibility. Thus, Instrumenta=
tion Laboratory is clearly responsible for assigning these people
to other work if the analyzer is temporarily or permanently shut !

down, |

Section 5,0 SUMMARY OF RDA USE |
;

The following is a brief summary of the usage and fiscal arrange- ;

| ments given in more detail in Appendix A and B for the period from October 1, i
) 1950 = October 1, 1952: :

: Percentage of Estimated Cost |
SIS wemiO EET :

Instrumentation Lab. usage 55% $50,000 #*
Non-Instrumentation Lab, usage 33% g,700 * |
(charges reimbursed) 's
Non=Instrumentation Lab. usage 12% 0 §
(free usage for Institute 2
academic activity) |

# Estimates include overhead at 42%

During this period, the RDA has been used in connection with three ;
doctorate theses, totaling nearly four months of RDA time, Dr. Seaman's 3
thesis is listed as part of the Instrumentation Laboratory work while
Dr, Tung's thesis is included in the time of the Mechanical Engineering
Dept. This thesis work, plus the time given to Institute departments, shows
that 25% or more of the RDA operation has been in fundamental research. The
charges to other DIC projects are satisfactory but the credits on work out-
side of MIT have seemed too low. For 57.5 days work for Stevens Institute,
Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratory, Bendix and the U of Pa,, we have
received a credit of approximately $2375, This figure plus overhead amounts
to $3375, which is far less than the $7500 that we would have charged these
companies under DIC policy, Of this $7500, $1500 would have been for the
industrial fund,

Seetion 6.0 CONCLUSIONS

As this memorandum indicates, we are currently dependent on the use
of both the RDA and Statistical Services for solving our calibration problems,


lym

I hope you will find it possible to allow us to use the analyzer for at
least two years and that the fiscal arrangements suggested will be satise
factory. To correct any possible false impressions, I would like to re-
emphasize the excellent cooperation of both Mr, Verzuh and Prof, Morse's
Committees In general, we have been very happy in our use of the analyzers
Our concern for clarifying responsibility and future use took a sharp up-
turn when Dr. Stratton mentioned a few weeks ago that the Institute was
considering giving the machine to the University of Texas, presumably
because we did not wish to continue supporting it, This was clearly a
misunderstanding, and we are anxious to avoid repetition of this type of
concern,

He R. Boyd

Attachments

ce:
Prof, Ce Floe
Prof. P, Morse
Dre. CoS. Draper
Mr, F, Watriss
Mr, J, Little
Dre, F.L, Foster
Mr. F; Verzuh

Jmp


Bt ni SN —
I—————— " o Ra.
= c—————————— ~

APPENDIX A
SUMMARY OF RDA USE FOR PAST TWO YEARS

Machine Shop

July 1 = October 1, 1950
3 machinists repaired RDA and finished vector table

October 1, 1950 = present

Average of 1/2 machinist maintains RDA, Average of 2 1/2
machinists make precision parts for Instrumentation Laboratery
non-RDA uses

RDA Operation

July 1 «= September 30, 1950
2 engineers paid by MIT; Mrs. Hogan and part of Mr. Verzuh's time
charged to RDA account 2349.

 

 

User No, of Days
AMC contract 2365
Acoustics Lab 2
Prof, Waugh 9
Instrumentation Lab, 21e5
Oct. 1950 Instrumentation Lab. Te5
Stevens Inst, 14.5
Nov. 1950 Instrumentation Lab, 20
Deco 1950 Instrumentation Lab, 7
Stevens Inst. 6
Jan, 1951 Instrumentation Lab, 13
AF, Cambridge Research Lab. 3
Feb, 1951 Instrumentation Lab, 12
AF. Cambridge Research Lab, 6
March 1951 Instrumentation Labs 5
AF, Cambridge Research Lab, 17
April 1951 Instrumentation Lab, 13.5
Mr. Verzuh LoS
Metallurgy Dept, 3
May 1951 Instrumentation Lab,

2
Mr, Verzuh 13
Maintenance 7
21
21

June 1951 Instrumentation Lab,

July 1951 Meteor


August 1951

September 1951

Octo 1951

Dec. 1951

Jan, 1952

Feb a 1952

March 1952

April 1952

May 1952

June 1952

July 1952

August 1952

September 1952

APPENDIX A (CONT.)

‘Instrumentation Lab,

ME. Dept. (Prof. Kaye)

Instrumentation Lab.
M.E. Dept. (Prof. Kaye)
Bendix (Dr. Michel)

U, of Pa, (Dr. Chance)

Instrumentation Lab,
M,E. Dept. (Prof. Kaye)

Instrumentation Lab.
M.E. Depto (Prof. Kaye)

Instrumentation Lab,
Mr. Verzuh's thesis

Instrumentation Lab.
Stevens Inst.
Mr. Verzuh'!s thesis

Instrumentation Lab.
Stevens Inst.

Instrumentation Lab.
Maintenance

Instrumentation Lab,
Physics Depts (Dr. Finkelstein)
(Free)

Instrumentation Lab,

Instrumentation Lab,
Mro Verzuh's thesis

Instrumentation Lab,

Mr, Verzuh'!s thesis

E.E. Dept. (Prof. Lyons)
(Free)

Instrumentation lab.
Meteor

Meteor

Fo wh 98 web WF WE Bo mosw aB


APPENDIX A (CONT,)
SUMMARY OF RDA USAGE

 

No, of Days

Instrumentation Lab, ! 239

Meteor 60

Stevens Inst. of Technology 3645

Mr, Verzuh 345 = No charge

M.E. Dept. | 34 10 days no charge

E.E. Dept, 11.5 No charge

AoF, Cambridge Hesearch Lab, 11

Bendix 6

U, of Pa, 2

Metallurgy Dept, 3 No charge
| Physics Dept, 1 No charge

ER Cn —— GD

43845

Figures in Appendix A were supplied by Miss Tamm for Instrumentation Lab.
budget purposes, Accuracy was not needed for this purpose for the most
part and records may show some slight discrepancies,


APPENDIX B
SUMMARY OF FISCAL CHARGES

It has been our desire to operate the RDA for others on a non=-

loss, no=gain basis. To do this requires a credit of $100 = $120/day

for other work, We have also agreed to give up to 10% total time on thesis
or academic work free, The following is a summary of actual credits and
charges for non-Instrumentation Laboratory use:

1.

2e

3a

be

be

During the period July 1950 = September 1950, we paid RDA
account no. 2349 $1732.15, based on the old method of charging,
even though we were paying two engineers and three machinists
for operation during this period. I believe that the proper
charge should have been about $815, This estimate is based on
the time of Mrs. Hogan, Mr. Goos, and one third of the time of
Mr, Versuh and Miss Tamm for one month « we used the machine
21.5 dayse : -

Since October 1951, Stevens Institute of Technology has used the
machine a total of 36.5 days. I believe a credit of approximately
$4000 should have been made to DIC 6783 (I.L. Air Force account
number for RDA)s Up until now, we have been credited with only
$2610, Another point is that billed at 100% industrial overhead
rate, the charge to Stevens would have contributed about $1500

to the Industrial fund,

Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratory
13 days of work done in January to March 1951
Desired credit $1500; actual credit $330.

Mechanical Engineering Dept. (Prof. Kaye and Dr, Tung)

34 days - August « November 1951

Desired charge about $3700; actual credit $2610

This difficulty was our own fault, We received some free con=
sultation from Prof. Kaye and the remainder was considered a
contribution to Dr, Tung'!s thesis.

Project Meteor

27 days = July = August 1950 = correctly charged by Instrumentation
Lab, requesting DIC te transfer all salaries and wages for this
month to Meteor.

Credit $2008.53 plus 42% ($2850)

39 days « August = September 1952 « charges now in process of
clarification. No difficulty anticipated.

Mr, Verzuh
34.5 days = thesis


~J

APPENDIX B (CONT, )

Other uses:

Bendix «= Dr. Michel
Ve of Pa, == Dre Chance
Physics Dept.

Metallurgy Depts

No. of
Days

Ww = nn oo

Credit

 

303.
86,

Desired

Credit

672.

22h.
C
0


Dr. Laning, who is in charge of the Instrumentation Laboratory
fatnematics work, has given the following discussion of the use of the
1D solving the gunsight calibration problem:

ala and Statistical Servi

a

J
Mh
oO
fede
=

instrumentation Laboratory Use of RDA and MIT Statistical Services
EE ————————————————————————————————————————————————————————t ts. h LN Le SD

The Rockefeller Differential Analyzer and MIT Statistical
Services groups currently perform a large volume of work for the Instrumen—
tation Laboratory, most of which relates to the calibration of fighter
alrcraft sights, To clarify our present and anticipated future needs for
these services, I present herewith a resume of the nature of the calibration
problem and the contributing role of these groups.

In our type of sight there are several variable parameters (e.g.
torques, currents) that must be functionally related, automatically and
continuously, to such measureable variables as the range of the target and
its time rate of change, the air dersity, and the aircraft anguler velocity.

The process of deriving the necessary relationships in a practical form is
called calibration,

The first step in calibration is to comrute the ideal fighter
flight paths which are such that a round fired at any instant along the
path is theoretically a hit. Since the projectile is aimed by pointing the
alrcraft itself, these equations necessarily involve aircraft dynamics, The
result is a complicated set of non-linear differential equations sontaining
alreraft performance, ballistics of the projectile, and rather intricate
geometric and kinematic calculations. The solution to these is currently
carried out by RDA, The second step is the reduction of these solutions to
usable form; i.es, the preparation of tabulations of the sight parameters to
be calibrated against the variables to be used in their calibration, This
step involves quite complex kinematic calculations that are currently
carried out on punched card equipment by MIT Statistical Services, The
last step is that of finding suitable empirical approximations to these data
in a form that can be instrumented. Since the data depend upon many more
parameters that can be utilized in practice, engineering judgment and exe
perience are the important factors in selecting the proper form for these
approximations. This part of the task involves relatively little computation,
and is carried out in the Instrumentation Laboratory.

The first two parts of this task are suited, in principle, to
solution by a large scale digital computing facility, and a program is in
progress to explore the feasibility of a completely digital approach. The
important and unknown factors are those of speed, accuracy, machine capacity,
and cost, as well as machine availability. Relief from our present dependence
upon RDA and Statistical Services can be expected, if at all, only after
completion of a major exploratory program with other facilities.


A "NT = te Ter >
— —-— - i, RT TY EE - i ETT EY mm —
= 3 3 oo =. ga = pe ——— — RES. PET TT A a dh
: 5 RS Rr rE a a Fo, A, 32
pa A
~ — ER un Ne "3 1% x :: = 5 3
= i ek ES = A p—
Fae ~ x a pas ei
=e z 2 = : ; ; 2
oh # = =
on 5% RR a EE 2 Bad 5 =F z i:
: a = a — SRE ee 2 = Cn =
E- - - -~ > ~ - 3 = b &
— athe vr ¥ re RNS 2 =z
; - Eo Ry ) Ha yes = = Pat! 3 Eng re
= ta = = = ; nd Pa! ¥ =
att i AE v EEE a Po a = TN Ee wh
= = x = aE x or | Fidos oe AL
3 fo B a Fd x = NBs Sa
— - =~ J C2 y Cat to
= = Sa oe a - 35 = =A
3 v 5 a = Rais x 2 = SE ms
-- Ic w TERR TR 7 yo Sie Sead Ai = u Pr ii
~ = es 5 A - = gt ya tL

3 LIST OF FUTURE USAGE FOR RDA

 

2 7; Estimated No. of

Es 1. Cunval = special calibrations for 20
Es ordnance evaluation

Ee 2. Curved course basic runs 1
0 3, Three-dimensional basic runs 4O
lL, MAir-to-ground rocket fire w/range 9

5, New research based on outline of work 100
bods in Ttems 1 = 4

6. Investigate effect of I,, on gunfire and 15
es rocket

aE 7. Solution of mechanism equations for certain 36 |
SH typical runs aaa |

Aol | Total 234

ae Approximately one year


