*j

COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

 

Minutes 9_1_'_ the Sixth Meetgg‘
February 11, 195‘}

Persona Present: c. S. Draper, J. W. Forrester, F. B. Hildebrand,
J. A. Brones, J. H. Laning, Jr., 0. 0. Lin,
W. McKay, P. H. Horse, W. W. Seirert

Horse brought up to Draper, McKay and Lenin; the ques-
tion of the future of large computing machines at the Institute,
particularly in connection with teaching and educational research.
He raised the question whether instruction in machine methods was
important and whether this required the support of. large and ex—
pensive machine installations by the Institute. Draper said that
aeronautical engineers now had to be conversant with machine tech-
niques, that airplane manufacturers were using large machines in
increasing numbers and they expected the men they hire to know
how to use them. The sort or training that was needed was about
3 or 1: weeks for each of 50 undergraduates , during which time
each student should have some chance to operate the machine him—
self. Acquaintance with a digital machine was as necessary as
acquaintance with analogue equipment. There was not time to
schedule a full-term course in this; it must be fitted into one of
the departmental courses, in their opinion.

 

Additional machine time was needed for graduate student
and start research. This would need as his a machine as could be
made available. It was not clear, however, how big a machine
would be needed for the undergraduate training, but they felt it
should be at least as fast as the card program calculator and
probably faster, to give the students the experience of programing
a high-speed digital machine. Draper felt that funds for the
support of such equipment should be provided and should be sought.
he agreed that it was inefficient to try to use DIG project-
supported machines for the basic training and educational research.

Morse showed the Committee members a draft of a proposal
for a Tables Conference (appended) which he suggested could be
shown to Stratton for transmitting to the National Science Founda-
tion. The Comittee approved this suggestion.

The next meeting of the Committee will be at 3:00 12.11:.

on Wednesday, March 10.
mag? . new

Cha irman

J11

. PHM


