=P

but ite expansion will be hampered by the limitations of access
to the 704, as will be discussed later,

The use of the machine by the other colleges has expanded
rapidly until nearly a full shift is now occupled with their work
(including their class exercises). But this use tends to be self-
limiting for, as soon as g college faculty begins fully to apprec-
late the possibilities in education and research of computers, the |

of their own. These are smaller machines, of the 650 type, (with
Some larger machines projected), so these Institutions still come
to the Center to use the 704 for their bigger "jobs; but it does

will tend to level off to a reasonable load (about one shift, it
now appears) rather than growing continuously, as the MIT usage 1is
doing. This result, of course, is in accord with our convietion
that computers should be as prevalent as chemistry laboratories.

In contrast, the MIT use of the TO4 for research into new
applications has grown so that now we are not able to satisfy all
requests for machine time for such work, let alone routine pro ject
calculations of the "production-run® type (important as these often
are) even when we encroach on the third machine shift, which has
heretofore been reserved for IBM use. In addition To the research
in solid-state theory, in meteorology and oceanography, which now
depend completely on machine computation and could already use more
time than we can allot them, there are a number of research projects
which are basic to the development of new uses for computers, and,
indeed, to the development of computers themselves, which are alre ady
handicapped by shortage of machine time and limitation of TO4

Programming Development. The Center staff has already
developed an automatic operator routine which is being adopted by
other 704 users. More general assembly programs; such as the
Linking Segment Subprogram Loader, which combines Fortran, SAP amd
other special codes; COMIT, which enables the 704 to be used on
language translation problems: and LISP, which enables the machine
to handle non-numericail logic, such as algebraic and other symbolic
manipulation, are being developed and tested. The work at MIT in
this fielqd, 8ince Whirlwind days, is well known.

Time-sharing Techniques. We already have a typewriter
connected to The 704, which Works on a time-sharing basis with our

problems, for example. The 704 cannot effectively accommodate more
than one or two such satelite chamels, but the Center staff is now