iam Weyl LR o - January 17, 1955

42t the worthwhile parts then active should each be supported,
zparate projects, by funds from various sources. Now that the
8ibilities of machine use are known by faculty and students,
wther support of research using machines can perhaps be provided
sn the strength of the importance of the researsh itself, rather
than because of ite interest as a problem in machine coding. Some
of these research projects may be supported by industry, some may
s8till need support from ONR, but the support need not all come from
‘the Mathematies Division of ONR; the other divisions, interested
in the research, should contribute their share. Consequently, no
additional funds will be requested for DIC 6915 at this time., Next
summer the situation will be re-assessed and a f£inal decision as to
its future will then be made.

Pro fect wg% - The situation with respeet to DIC 6345,
the operation o wind I itself, 18 quite otherwise. This
equipment is the only high-speed digital computer available at
present for general research at the Institute. Unless enough
funds are available to pay for maintenance, operation, programming
and scheduling, no research regquiring machine ceomputation of this
sort will be possible at the Institute and the goal set by the
other part, project 6915, would be nullified. At present WW1l is
supported in part by Lincoln Laboratory and in pert by ONR. The
tiwe ot used by Lincoln, whieh is used by workers in projeet 6345
and in the general research and ecducationsl activities of the Ine
‘8titute, is equivalent to abeut 40 hours & week, full one-shift
~ operation of the machine. The ¢os® not born by Linsoln héve been
trimmed to about F160,000 per year. The problem 18 how to provide
this amount during June 1955-June 1956 and how to provide the -
larsortamount to keep going later if Lincoln should withdraw its
aupm ° : :

je One possibility would be to charge each user proportionally .
to his use of the machine, irrespesctive of the nature of his work.

This, of course, would have thesresult of discouraging most thesis

research and general faculty use of the machine, thus nullifying

the resulvs of the efforts of projeev 0915, which was set up, in

pert, to stimulate this interest. Another pessibility would be

to charge those users who eould afford it (the sponsored projects)

enough to pay for the full $160,000 needed for the next fiscal

. year and to allow thesis and general eduecational research free time.,

. Costs to other ONR Projects - But this year somewhat more

" than one halif of the sponsore » none-Lincoln) work done on WW1l

was done for various ONR projects carried on at the Institute.
Quite a bit (3-5 hours a week) was done for the project on Solid
State Physies under Professor Slater; much time is used by the