Your Department or Laboratory: MIT Computation Center Information Worksheet
DIRECTORY OF CUTUENT RESEARCH

yrojecis: New X (please check one) Industrial Lialson Office
Contiming Due Date: October 17, 1956
Terminated

 

1f project is continuing or terninated, it is only necessary to fill in the
project nwiber (es listed in the 1955-1956 Directory of Current Recearch - see
previous worksheet) and Item (5) below, listing any publications that do not appear
oi a previous worksheet and that would be of interest to industrial people on the
subject.

lew Projects
LT the project is new, would you please fill out this entire form (both sides
of sheet) with the exception of Item (1) below.

 

1. IUMBER OF PROJECT: (On new projects number will be assigned by the ILO)

no

NAME OF PROJECT: MIT Computation Center, a new interdepartmental laboratory.

3. PERSONNEL: In Charge: (state whether faculty or senior DIC staff member)
Prof, P. M. Morse, Director
Dr. F. M, Verzuh, Assistant Director
Others: (Indicate whether DIC, thesis student, Research Associate, etc.)
See attached sheet

4. SPONSORSHIP (if any): Agency or Company:

M.I.T., I.B.M. Corporation, National Science Foundation

5. PUBLICATIONS OF THIS PROJECT:
Please include theses, technical reports, and journal articles (with
appropriate references) which lo not eppear on a previous worksheet.
A complete list of the reports issued by certain of the individuals who
were formerly in the Machine Methods of Computati@am group appears in the
Quarterly Progress Report No, 47 (July, August, September, 1956)


6.

SUMMARY OF THIS PROJECT:
(Should begin with a brief statement of the over-all purpose and also

include a statement of the work performed since the last Directory as well
28 the future work planned. Should be about 100 words in length with allow-

_.ance for the size of the particular project, and should be written in

" language vhich is meaningful to technical people who are not specialists
in this particular field. The Industrial Liaison Office will modify this
summary as necessary for editorial consistency with other projects described
in the book and will return it to the person in charge for approval.)

The Machine Methods of Computation and Numerical Analysis project has been
terminated as of June 30, 1956. A complete set of terminating reports deseribing
the activities of this project is contained in Quarterly Report No. 47.

The new M.I;T. Computation Center was set up effective July 1, 1956 having
as the principal objective the establishment of an outstanding oomputing cemter
at the Institute. The objectives of this Center are three-fold:

1. To teach and train students and staff from the participating N.E.
educational institutions the most effective 704 machine methods of
computation.

2. To perform research in the field of machine utilization with specific

emphasis on scientific emgineering, business, finance, and the social
sciences.

3. To develop new peripheral equipment (or new machines) in order to handle
the large-scale problems which exist in our new present-day technology.
For example, in the fields of social sciences, nuclear research, ete.

It should be emphasized that the work in the Computation Center is to be
devoted exclusively to non-classified research in which the results are expected
to be incorporated in a publication. It is impomant to recognize that the
Computation Center is to provide the basic tools for the education, research, and
devédopment, and not to be considered as a service bureau installation competing
with industrial concerns for reutine computational tasks.

The I.B.M. Corporation is contributing the 704 installation and the cost of
maintaining this facility on the M.I.T. campus. Ia addition, it is providing
funds for the appointment of approximately 36 research assistants at M.I.T. and
the various partieipating universities. The National Science Foundation has
contributed funds to the operation of the Center. ‘However, additional funds

must be raised to set up the first-rate research and operating staff required in
this installation. |


