AN APPRAISAL OF THE SUMMER RESEARCH TRAINING
INSTITUTE ON MONETARY AND CREDIT POLICY, 1957

THE summer tesearch training institute on monetary
and credit policy was organized around a series of
seminars led by economists and members of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System responsible
for the formation of monetary and credit policy. The
afternoons were left free for individual and group proj-
ects. William Martin, Jr. and C. Canby Balderston, re-
spectively Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board,
presented seminars dealing with the way its staff con-
tributes to the making of policy decisions. Several staff
members of the Board, notably Woodlief Thomas, Win-
field Riefler, and Arthur Marget, led seminars on aspects
of their work. Robert Roosa of the New York Bank and
George Mitchell of the Chicago Bank presented papers.
We were fortunate, also, to have Paul McCracken of
the Council of Economic Advisers to take responsibility
for a seminar.

We had originally planned to devote the afternoons
to work on a series of group projects. However, the
participants indicated a strong preference for individual
research. As a compromise we decided to use the first
two weeks for group projects and the last four weeks
for individual research projects.

During the first two weeks the sixteen participants
were divided into three groups, each of which was re-
sponsible for estimating the reserve needs for the forth-
coming week and for the three-month period ending
November 1. At the end of the two weeks each group
reported its findings and defended them before the at-
tacks of the other groups.

During the following four weeks each of the partici-
pants worked on a project of his own choosing. Gen-
erally, we encouraged the participants to choose topics
on which work could be carried out more easily at the
office of the Board than at their various universities.
We helped the participants to get in touch with the ex-
perts on the staff of the Board who could best help
them. At the end of the six weeks, the following papers
had been prepared and were presented to the institute:

Alice Bourneuf: Possible Summary of Flow-of-Funds
Data in Four Tables

® The author is Professor of Economics at Purdue University and
served as director of the summer research training institute on monetary
and credit policy, held in Washington, D. C., from June 24 to August
2, 1957, under the joint sponsorship of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System and the Council’s Committee on Rescarch
Training.

by E. T. Weiler *

Claus Ruser: The Elasticity of Commercial Bank
Demand for Federal Obligations, 1945-56

David Chambers: Analysis of Federal Reserve Board
Sample of 300 Large Corporations

Emmett Rice: Significance of Shifts in Sector
Liquidity

Jacob Cohen: The Concept and Measurement of
Sector Contribution

Raymond McEvoy: Bank Loans to Small Business un-
der Tight Money, 1955-56

Joseph Aschheim: The Bankers’ Program of Reserve
Reduction and Reform

Charles A. Matthews: Monetary Policy and Com-
mercial Bank Assets

Assar Lindbeck: Analyzing Economic Effects of Fiscal
Policy—with Special Regard to Effects on the Credit
Market

George Horwich: Effective Reserves and Bank In-
vestment Policy during the Late 1930’s

H. Jerome Cranmer: Behavior of New York Central
Reserve City Deposits, 1919-56

Deane Carson: Treasury Open Market Operations

Norman Leonard: Some Effects of Recent Monetary
Policy on State and Local Finance

Bogdan Mieczkowski: The Role of Recent Monetary
Developments in Italy

One of these papers, modified and revised in the light
of criticism by other participants, was presented at the
American Economic Association Annual Meeting in
December 1957. Two other papers are being revised
and will be submitted for publication in journals.

APPRAISAL FROM THE PARTICIPANTS’
POINT OF VIEW

From the participants’ point of view the summer re-
search training institute on credit.and monetary policy
appears to have been an unqualified success. On return-
ing home most of the participants took time to write
letters indicating the strengths and weaknesses of the
summer program. They were uniformly pleased: At no
other institution could they have taken seminars with
so large and distinguished a staff of economists interested
in central banking and monetary theory; at no other
place could they have worked with so many practicing
economists; and as a by-product they learned how
cconomists can serve in a staff capacity.