COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes of the Second Meetl
Bcademic Year '52-'53

Persons Present: C. W. Adams, S. H. Caldwell, H. Feshbach,
C. C. Lin, P. M. Morse, and E. Reilssner.

The Committee looked over the record and the letters of
recommendation of Mr. Stanley H. Sydney and approved his appointment
for this year. The Committee felt that Mr. Sydney (Civil Engineering
Department) should take further courses in mathematics this year in
order to improve his background in numerical analysis, and it was
agreed that his reappointment for the following year would be based
not only on the work that he has done this year in his problem, but
also on his progress in mathematics. There was some further discus-
sion concerning the scheduling of time for the oil prospecting problem
of Wadsworth and Hurley on Whirlwind. It was felt advisable that both
Wadsworth and Hurley come to a Committee Meeting in the near future
to discuss this problem so that the Committee could have a clearer
picture of what was involved.

Morse reported that Professor Gordon Brown had indicated
that he would appreciate meeting with the Committee sometime this
term to discuss courses in machine computation presented by the
Electrical Engineering Department. Morse also indicated that the
problem of the future disposition of the differential analyser would
have to come up for discussion this year. In this ¢onnection, he
asked for consideration of the question as to whether MIT should
not eventually obtain a computing machine intermediate in capacity
between the small analog machines now available at the Institute and
such a machine as Whirlwind, as possible replacement for the RDA.

Morse reported that he had suggested to Dr. Stratton that
approximately one-third of Frank Verzuh's salary be paid for by the
Committees so that Verzuh could help in the administrative work for
the Committee. It is to be hoped that Dr. Stratton will reach a final
decision in the near future on Verzuh's status at the Institute.

It was agreed that 3 o'clock on the first Wednesday of each
month would be an appropriate time for the meetings of the Committee
for this term. Accordingly the next meeting will be on November 5,

at 3 o'clock.
QM Wner

Phill . Morse
Chairman

10-1-52 (Meeting)


