Q

 

COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Minutes of the First Meetin
Icademic Year '52-'53

Persons Present: c. w. Adams, 8. H. Caldwell, H. Peshbach,
J. w. Forrester, C. C. Lin, P. M. Morse,
and E. Reissner

The Committee considered the case of S. H. Sidney in the

.Civil Engineering Department, who was suggested for an assistant—

ship. Not enough detail as to the applicant's ability. in the
form of an application or letters of recommendation, was at hand
for the Committee to come to a final decision. The discussion was
put off until our next meeting, the week of September 29.

Morse reported that Messers. Martino, Storey, and Caldwell
will not be appointed for the coming year, which leaves some funds
available for one or two additional appointments for the coming
year. Morse also reported that ONE had requested the Project to
support the work of Dr. W. Albertson as Scientific Adviser to the
Naval War College. This question_is in the hands of Strstton and
Killian for policy decision; Morse will report their decision.

ONR has agreed that the arrangement will. in any case, be of one
year's duration and that additional funds to make up the cost will
be provided if necessary. -

Forrester and Adams reported on the allocation of time
on Whirlwind for the coming year and requested the Committee's help
in determining priorities. About half the machine time will be
used by Project Lincoln; of the remaining half, l/h of the time will
be needed for Adams"s group for program development and specialized
training (about 30 hours per month). Forrester suggested that the
remaining 90 hours per month be divided roughly as follows:

Longarange Commitments ---------- 20 hrs. per month
Machine Computation Fellows ----- 10 hrs. per month
Other Educational Activities
(including thesis work) --------- 29 hrs. per month
Short-range academic and
D10 work --------------------- lo hrs. per month
Work requested by ONE ----------- 5 hrs. per month
Industrial (1L0) problems ------- 6 hrs. per month
Unassigned ---------------------- 10 hrs. per month
TOTAL 95 Hr . per month

This general allocation seemed reasonable to the Committee.
After some discussion it was agreed that the Project should go very
slow in taking on long—range commitments and that less than 10 or
the proposed 20 hours per month should be allocated now.


It was agreed that it wanld be of help for Adams to
circulate short descriptiana of the variaua research Jobs done
by Whirlwind to the Cammittee, far poasible comments and criticisms.

The next meeting will be at an appropriate time during

the week mf September 299
MM
Philip . Morse

Chairman

8—26-52 Fleeting)
9-2-52 Minutes typed)


