a
a
fF

_#foflDre leon Iukaszewicz

Brief scientific biography
Tre of/ |
Problems which I am most interested in are first all connected
with electronic computer programming and designing. Lately I took

interest in problems of computer application to business data
processing.

1 was born in Warsaw, 1923. In 1948 I graduated from the
Gdansk /Dantzig/ Technical University, Department of Electronics.
While studying I was appointed as assistant in mathematics at the
above University. In 1950 I graduated from the Warsaw University,
Department of Mathematics. In 1952 I obtained the Doctor degree
at the Technical University of Warsaw. My doctor thesis dealt with
The theory of errors in electronic differential equation analysers,
In 1954 I was appointed as docent, and in 1962 - as Professor.

I am Director of the Institute of Mathematical Machines of the
Polish Academy of Sciences since 1957.

I am member of the Polish Mathematical Society and the
American Association for Computing Machinery. I also am delegate
of Poland to the International Federation for Information
Processing IFIP,

In 1949 I started working at the Mathematical Institute.
My first more important work resulted in the general design
and supervision of the construction of an electronic analyser.
for differential equations. The analyser was completed in 1953
and it had worked till 1960.

In 1956 I guided a group, the task of which was to construct
the first Polish electronic digital computer. The computer was
accomplished in 1958 and named XYZ. On its basis the ZAM-2 computer
has been build, now being produced in Poland,

In 1956 I organized in the Institute of Mathematical Machines
of the Polish Academy of Sciences the first Polish Computation
and Programming Office, using the XYZ and next the ZAM-2 computer.

In 1958 I initiated and personally conducted work on an
automatic programming system for XYZ and ZAM-2 computers. This,
when completed in 19561, got the name "SAKO"™ and it was such first
system elaborated in the socialistic countries. The SAKO language
is in many respects similar to the American FORTRAN-II.

 

In 1960-62 I personally guided a group designing a semiconductsr
computer for data processing - ZAM-41. Simultaneously I conducted |
a group which elaborated an automatic programming system for ZAM-41,
The optimum fitting of the machine design for the assumed program- |
ming systems was the problem I especially kept busy with.

N

— .
~~ ~~


