AY 1956

 

Dr. Philin» HM. Morse

Professor of Physics

Massachusetts Tnstitnte of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Dr. torse:

For some time this Center has been interested in the
apnl ication of certain methemetical and statistical models,
such ag game theory, to the nroblems of personnel utiliza=
tion in the military service. We are concerned with a
variety of problems which may be attacked with the use of
certain of these models.

An exammle of the sort of problem which we have in
mind is one of minimizing the cost of training Air Force
technicians. There are available nsychological tests
which give a zood indication of a man's nrobable success in
technical school training. These tests give differential
predictions for different kinds of training with concomitant
different probabilities of success. With these probabilities
and with good estimates of the cost to train men in each of
the several specialties, it is hoped that a minimizing »ro=
cedure night be used to indicate the most economical way of
assigning individuels to technical training, while at the
same time taking a minimum risk of not meeting the Air Force
requirements,

Ye are also interested in the application of general
nurnose commuters to the nroblems of personnel utilization,
particularly the solutions of mathematical models which might
be appropriate for personnel classification and training, es-
pecially methods of managing very large masses of data, which
considered separately have 1ittle predictive value, but which
considered as 8 whole, permit good estimates of future per=
formance.


Dre rhilip M. Moree 2

1 would appreciate {t very much if you would write me in=
alenting whether or not you would be interested in being con=
gidered an & prospective bidder on a contract with our organizes
tion tO study either or both of the problems described above,
attempting, if possible, tO develop practical solutions which
would be some {mprovement over methods now employed. If you
are interested, 1t would be appreciated 1f you would tell me
briefly about the personnel and facilities available in your

organization.

In addition, 1 gould be happy to review any proposals for
contract regoarch 1a related areas in which your ateff ls var
ticularly interested and able.

this letler ghould not be regarded v8 8 contract nro=
ropaly iL 18 tutendod as an inquiry about interest in and
capability for handling certsin research problems for this

organizations

Sincerely,

Jil Jd John M. lLelman
Chief, Statistical Methodology
and Analysis Branch


