CC-16 COMPUTATION CENTER

Magsachusetts Ingtitute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachugetts

~ MEMORARDUM
To: Department Heads Date: April 10, 1957
From: | P, M, Morge, Director

Subject: Approval of Requests for Computation Time at the Center

 

1. The Center has get up the rule that all research workers,
faculty or students, who wish to use the equipment of the Center in the
course of their research, must apply for approval of their computing plans
and for assignment of mechine time, using the forms encloged., Machine time
for umclassified research, connected with graduate education, is free, but
we need the formalism of an application s0 ag to have the chance to look
over computation plans before they are started, to see whether they are
feasible and to see whether we can allocate the required time., (¥o classified
work will be done at the Center,)

2, The Center is asking that éach Department Head approve each such
application which involves elther faculty members or students in his department,
before the application comes to us. We feel thisg added requirement is desirable

because:

1. It gives you a chance to gee what use your department is
naking of' the Center (you may wish to l@ep a record of the forms you
have OK.do)

2. It gives us the benefit of your judgement of the value of
the proposed research to the sducational activities carried on by
MIT. We do not ask you to judge the feasibility of putting the
problem on a computing machine (we will do that); we do ask that
you approve only those requests which represent useful research in
the field of your department and which contribute non-trivially to
the education of one or more students.

3. We do not ask that you approve requests for machine tims
from DSR projects, involving only DSR staff members in the prosecution
of the research of their project. Such purely project computation,
usually of a more routine nature, will have lower priority in machine
time assignments, will be expected to contribute finaneially to the
support of the Center, if time is assigned, and arrangements for
this work will be discussed between the Center and the Project
Supervisor directly, without needing to bother you, In any case, the
work must be publishablie.

4. To approve an application, you should sign in the box on the
right-hand columm, marked "Inst. Rep, Approval', circled in red in the enclosed
sample. We will not accept an application without guch a gignature,

5. If you have auny questions about these procedures please call or

see wme or Frank Verzuh.