August 11, 1661

Fosfst

Dr. P. Me. Horse :
Room 6-109

Deer Dr. Horse:

I am writing you prior to leaving on my vacation. During the
next week, I will be attending a conference on computation at Emdicott,
Mow York, end will be giving a paper there on Friday. The following
weeks 1 shell be enjoying & much-needed rest. Before leaving, however,
I thought that I should drop you & brief note deseribing the sctivities
of the personnel who are with us on this training progrem.

As you know, I have three of the rescarch assistants here; namely,
Mise Altman, Mr. Corbato and Nr. Temkin, and they heave mede very good prog=-
ress up to this time. The generel plan has been to give each of them rather
voluminous notes on the principles of operstion of the mechines. These notes
were carefully studied by them for approximately a week during which actual
use of the machines wes made, end then each was given e particular problem
to assist on. For example, Corbste, who was the first one to join the group,
sterted out by becoming familiar with the work we are doing on the coluiien
of simultaneous equations, inversion of metrices, eto. and he assisted on
the problem in which we are inverting e 24 x 24 matrix. Shortly after thet,
we converted the existing technigues for solution on the new 604 Ilectronic
Caleculetor, and he has since become quite familiar with the preparation of
instructions for this mechine.

I have taken the liberty of informing these people that you will
probably hold a eeminar this fall, as we did last yesr, in which each of
them will he expected to contribute something. With this view in mind, I
have piven each a reseerch assignment. Specifically, Corbsto has been given
the problem of formulating en IBY method of solving crystel structure computa-
tions. We have for a number of yeers at the Institute been carrying on IBM
work of this type for various people in the Geology amd Electrical Engineering
Departments. AL the present time, we ere deing werk for a Dr. Abrahams, who
is et MIT on a fellowship of some sorte. Corbate has done a nice job of formu-
lating the 604 spproach to this problem, and T have requested that he prepare
a complete writeup of this work for possible presentation at a seminar - -
pending your epprovel of course. Tn addition, he has been able fo assist
with the work that we are doing for Professor Slater on the Schrbdinger
problem, the details of which you are familiar with,

iss Altmap has been given a research essignment dealing with the
evaluation of cherecteristic numbers of matrices using the IBM approach.
After much resesrch snd {ormulation, we are now mechanizing the iterative
method of solution of such problems. The details of this work will await
further progress.


Dre. Po i. Morse page 2 August 11, 1861

Temkin has been assisting in several computational problems
that are currently being conducted for the Department of Physics end the
Department of Aeromautics.

I think it is fair to say that esch has learned a considerable
émount in the time that they heave been here and are now becoming quite
useful to the group. Simultaneously, they are now eble to start BOme
fundamental research on this equipment,

I also wish to inform you that Yr. Corbato plane to Tesve on
e vaetion to the west coast on August 17th and will return sometime in

form you thet he hes put in an sdegquate emount of time here to warrant

& full month's vacation (he has Put in an sppreclable amount of overtime),
I Gid want to be sure that his return dete is consistent with whatever
plane you mey have for the group at the begiming of the yell Term.

I have seversl idess regarding additional research projects
which these people might carry on as well as some ideas regerding the
rotational system, etc. Upon my return from vacation, I would like very
much to discuss these with you znd also become familiar with your plans
regarding the training progrem {or the coming year.

very truly yours,

& » Ke Verzuh
VT


