July 13, 1959

Dr. Arthur Grad
National Sclence Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthur:

This is in the nature of a progress report concerning
a2 possible Conference of Directors of university computing
centers, about which I wrote you early last spring.

After I wrote you I wrote to about a dozen directors
of the larger university centers asking for thelr reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
center directors. The answers I regelved were nearly unanimous.
They were not enthuslastic about another permanent organlzation
in the computer ficld. They agreed there are a number of probe
lems pecullar Co university computing centers which ought to be
talked over in common from time to time. They wondered if
special meetings could be called about the time of an ACM ox
Joint Computer Conference or whethar one or two single confeir=
ences would not accomplish what was necded. Several of the
letters mentloned specific problems of interest, such as the
problem of financing the computing center while still keeping
it avallable for students and faculty, also the guestions of
academic gtandards and the status of resecarch on machines,

Last month I attended a confercnee galled by IBM at
Poughkeepsiec for the dlrectors of university computing ccenters
using IBM eguipment. About 30 of the 85lmown directors of col-
lege computing centers were there, mostly directors of centers
having 050's. We had an evening scesion concerning this same
problem. There again, the feeling wos that 1t was premature to
talk about a permanent organigation. IHowever, I found a rmuch
greater need for general discusslion and mutual agrecement on
various matters among this group which represcnted the smaller
and newer computing centexrs rather thon the representatives of
older and larger ccnters to whom I had written before. Thls
group felt the need of support for thelr plans and suggestions
for what are wise and unwise means of finaneinz and help in
determining procedures and academic standaxrds. After an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planuning group with

Ml i M o o