Reprinted from JourNAL oF THE OPTICAL SoCIETY OF AMERICA, Vol. 43, No. 11, 1114-1118, November, 1953
Printed in U. S. A.

Conductance and Relaxation Time of Electrons in Gold Blacks from Transmission
and Reflection Measurements in the Far Infrared*

Louis HARRIS AND ARTHUR L. LOEB
Department of Chemistry, Massachusetls Institute of Technology, Cambridge, M assachusetis

(Received July 3, 1953)

The electrical conductivity of gold blacks is evaluated from reflection and transmission measurements in
the far infrared. For sufficiently thin samples and sufficiently large wavelengths a closed expression is derived,
relating the electrical conductivity of the gold black directly to the absorption and transmission coefficients.
It is found that the electrical conductivity varies with wavelength, and for wavelengths larger than 105
microns this variation is attributed to a relaxation effect. The relaxation time of electrons in gold blacks is

found to agree closely with that in bulk gold.

INTRODUCTION

ETAL blacks have been found! to have a very low
density, and yet they conduct a direct current.
This has led to the conclusion that their structure is
yarn-like, with conducting strands spaced relatively
far apart. Maxwell’s theory of electromagnetic radia-
tion has been applied to correlate the optical (infrared)
and electrical properties of the blacks. When radiation is
incident on a black, a rapidly alternating field acts on
the electrons in the black, and the conductivity ex-
presses the response of the electrons to the imposed
electrical field. Several factors may make the conductiv-
ity dependent on the wavelength.

(A) Gaps in the metal strands consisting of either
insulating impurities or air, do not pass a direct current,
but may act as condensers. Since the impedance of a
branch of an electrical network containing a condenser
depends on the frequency, the apparent conductivity of
interrupted strands in gold black changes with the
frequency of the incident infrared radiation. Thus the
“optical conductivity’’ computed from transmission and
reflection data is actually an admittivity. With increas-
ing frequency of the incident radiation more strands
become capable of conducting current. Therefore this
“condenser effect” causes the optical conductivity to
decrease with increasing wavelength of the incident
radiation.

(B) According to Drude? and Zener® electrons have a
finite relaxation time, which causes them to lag behind
the imposed emf. This lag increases with increasing
frequency of the imposed field. This “relaxation effect”
causes the effective conductivity to increase with in-
creasing wavelength of the incident radiation.

(C) At resonance frequencies the optical absorptivity,
and hence the conductivity computed from optical
measurements, passes through a maximum.

For gold blacks the effects of the three factors (A),
(B), and (C) appear to predominate in different wave-

 

* This work supported in part under contract with the U. S.
Office of Naval Research.

1 T,. Harris and J. K. Beasley, J. Opt. Soc. Am. 42, 134 (1952).

2 P. Drude, The Theory of Optics (Longmans, Greene and Com-
pany, New York, 1902).

3 C. Zener, Nature 132, 968 (1933).

length regions. Resonance frequencies lie mostly in the
visible and near infrared regions. For wavelengths
greater than 100 microns only those strands appear to
conduct which can conduct direct current. Conductivity
across gaps only occurs appreciably for wavelengths
shorter than 100 microns, as will be shown below. Since
the measurements reported in this paper were all made
with radiation of wavelength greater than 100 microns,
the relaxation effect is the dominant one to be con-
sidered here.

THEORY, PART 1. CONDUCTIVITY AS A FUNCTION OF
ABSORPTION AND TRANSMISSION

Harris, Beasley, and Loeb* have derived expressions
for the reflection and transmission of radiation by thin
conducting films as functions of the optical constants,
n and k, of the film, the thickness of the film, the index
of refraction of a nonabsorbing backing for the film, and
the wavelength of the incident radiation. The backings
used for the gold blacks under consideration here were
examined separately in the far infrared, and were ob-
served to be 100 percent transmitting. Their index of
refraction is therefore effectively unity, so that Case III
of the above reference! applies here:

| (Zoa—Z a0)i sinK qa|?
7 |2 cosKa—1(ZoatZa0) sinK,,al"”
4
= : ,
12 cosKaa—i(ZoatZao) sinK ,a|*

 

(1)

 

(2)

where R=fraction of incident radiation reflected,
T=fraction of incident radiation transmitted, Zoa
—=n+ik, n=index of refraction of conducting film,
k=absorption coefficient of conducting film, Zao
=1/Za, i=A/—1, Ko= (27/\) (n+1k), \=wavelength
of incident radiation, and a= thickness of conducting
film. The optical constants are related to the conductiv-
ity and permittivity of the media by the relations

nk=2Yucea(\/ma), (3)

n*—k*= (ue/wo0), (4)
i Harris, Beasley, and Loeb, J. Opt. Soc. Am. 41, 604 (1951).

1114