Page 2 of 3

Note that this time is allocated separately each quarter; no further
mechine time will be allocated for this problea unless this question-
naire is answered and returned. Whether you have finished or not,
the following information concerning your use of the Center would be
helpful for us.

4. List SBARE subroutines used:

 

m_mm'-_-——m

a) Are subroutines working correctly?

T A T R R T T T R R A T ST TR T G T s T TR ERS SO Y e TSR e

b) List errors, limitations or changes in subroutines:

P T T TSSO SISt O S ey

-—

W

¢) Vhat modifications have you made?
d) Vhy were these modifications made?

 

 

5. List subroutines which you have written that mey bevdt interest to others:
W
6. Coding langusge and operating programs used:
SHARE FORTRAN
Other:

 

W

 

7. Programming statistics: Please report, as accurately as you can, the total
personnel hours expended during the past quarter in:

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) Math, Formulation e) Assembly & Hach, Testing

b} Numerical Amalysis £) Checking Results 5
¢c) Programming g) Production Rummning

d) Coding h) Problem Write up

 

T LTI IR ST L - TIWARRLINL T T

8. Is there any other way in which we can be of help to you?

e e i e

PRI N LT ISR TRy

 

B e

 

UL ATENEIE T Qe S

 

W

O
°

The sbstract and description of your problem, and the suggested clasgification,
which you provided for us on Application Form CCF-2, are used in our PFrogress
nonoTts %o describe yvour work, If these items have changed during the past
quarter, they should be brought up to date so that we have a correct version

of your present use of the Center. Conseguently, £ill in the Zollowing with

MO CHANGE or with a revised version:

a) For cataloging purposes, how would you index this problem? For
xemple, mathematics, logic, game, etc, If this is a mathematical
vroblem, specify type(s) such as, integration, partial differential
eguations, matrizx theory, etc.

 

mmmww

k) If this is a mathematical problem, specify numerical methods used,
such as, Gauss' quadrature method, difference equations, Crout, etc.

 

O SRS TP Y R L LTI PN e SR DT TR

 

e e

 

 

CCF-8.3
__——_