the adder capacity of the RDA by 85%.

2. The design and construction of two sutometic curve followers
was completed, and these were used a3 input units om the m.z

} : 3. The design and construction of the Vector Unit was completed.
: This unit incressed the functionsl capabilities of the RDA.S

l 1. Three new four-ghaft units wore mt{nctod which increased

, Additional details of the work performed during this period under
Alir Force Contract are gim in the Summary Reports which were submitted
as part of this work.%, | | .

September 30, 1950. However, it became apparent prior to July 1, 1950 that
the operation of the Differemtial Anslyzer would agein be in finencial dif-
ficulty. Conseguently, the Inatitute decided to close down the Differential

I ; The official termination date of the Air Force Contract was

Analymer as of June 30, 1950. Again the operating staff was released, and
the E. E. Department permanently severed 211 responsibility for the Differential
Analyzer. The machine was about to be scrapped when Dr. Drape;, Director of the
Instrunentation Laboratory expressed interest in its possible operation. When
l he learned that it only cost approximately $25,000 a year to cperate the
facility, he indimted that the Instrumentation Leboratory would sassume full
responsibility for all RDA operation as goon as the existing Alr Force Contract
‘ . was caompleted.

) At this time, it was realized that the principal uncompleted work on
the AKC contract was confined to the operational staff and not to the RDA

‘ Machine Shop. Consequently, the respoasibilities of the RDA Shop were trans-
ferred to the Instrufentation Laboratory on July 1, 1050.€ In this WENNOY ,
the Laboratory was able to utilize the services of the 3 Instrument Jakers

‘ and all of the shop fecilities for the production of gyro and other delicate
mechanisms for the Laboratory.

During the remsining three months of the AMC contract, namely July-
September, 1950, the operating staff of the RDA was engeged in the completion
of work requested by Wright Field, the preparation of final techmnical reports
required under this contract, and the completion of ocutstanding Center of
Analysis commitments requiring the use of the RDA. Hence, it was not until
October 1, 1950 that the Instrumentation Laboratory assumed the responsibility
of the operation of the entire RDA facility.

At this time, F. M. Verszsuh agroed to supsrvise the oporation of the RDA
for the Instrumentation Laboratory. Since the Electrical Engineering Depart-
ment staff assigned to this project had beaxreassigned to other projects within
the E. E. Department, offective July 1, 1950, (Professor 8. H. Caldwell, J.

M. Hem, and H. P. Grossimon), it again became necessary to hire 2 new operating
staff. Two new mem (Messrs. I. Pfeffer and R. Fredrickson) were hired and
trained in the techniques of the RDA operation, and in several months they
were able to effectively utiiize the RDA for the solution of Instrumentation
Leboratory problems.

 

1. Pleage refer to the Bibliography for the List of References.