=3—

at work on the design and programming required to provide a 7090
with 10 to 30 such "substation consoles" of various effective speeds
and capacitiesg which can be placed at appropriate places around MIT,
some perhaps in classrooms. The ultimate goal is to make the fastest
and most sophisticated computer as accessible and convenient to a
person working with it as a dial telephone is. This development will
‘not only open up new research areas, as indicated later, but also
will substantially simplify and expedite the process of producing

and debugging new programs. We believe all large machines will
eventually use timeasharing techniques in order to achieve their
ultimate capabilities; thus the research new begun at the Center
will be or general benefit to the development of the computer field.

yachine- ideg Education. Computers cang of course, aid in
grading exam he one, EEEEHEIIEg classrooms and students and do
other clerical tasks incidental to large classes. But computers
also can be programmed to carry out some of the detailed question~
andaanswer interchange which occurs in recitation sections. The
Center staff is now working with the Language Department at MIT
to program the 70“ to guide a student through some of the phases
of learning a new language, and are discussing the possibilities
of training students in the details of mathematical manipulation by
machinea Here the machine would pose questions for the student to
answer and; on the basis of the answers” would go on to other
questionsp as in a recitation section. To avoid intolerable cona
gestion at the main input console (and also waste of computer time)9
several students must be able to work with the machine simultaneouslyg
sharing machine time with regular computation. Therefore further
development or this research will shortly require a flexibility the
70k lacks but the 7090 does possess. Potentiallyg the use of coma
puters will help to solve the problem of giving individualized
training in the sciences at all levels» without excessive demands
on the time or able teachers.

Machinesscientist Coo erative Research (Synergyla In
addition to the exampIes ﬁusg mentioned» there are many other research
programs which can only progress effectively if the machine is
able to carry out calculations on immediate demand and display the
result or feed it back immediately into the experiment9 so the
experiment or the scientist can go on to the next step and request
the next computation in turnu 0n the 704 this would require the
exclusive use of the machine” though only a fraction of the 70#
speed would be used; obviously againy time=sharing techniques are
neededa

These? and many other programs now in progress, such as the
charactererecognition studies, the research on economic forecasting
and on operational behavior using largewscale simulation techniquess