XVI.

XVii.

AVIII.

XiX.

XXX .

 

Preliminary Anglysis of an Inventory Control System

A non-machine study of the many probiems arising in a
systems study of the overall inventory controel problem.
Detailed description is givem of the nsture of tramnsactioans
involved, comsiderations involving volume of data, rate of
information flow, neced for rearrangement of computational
procedure, study of the effects of errors, breakdown, and
interruptions, and finally a coansideration of problem areas
of interest to management to provide better overall control.

Solution of a Payroll Problem on the G50 Calculator

A basic 650 progrmm was prepared for a hypothetical
payroll involving 200 employees. The study included a
congideration of piece-work as well as the regular payroll
in which employees switch back and forth several times each.
day. Th? usual items such as, regular pay, overtime pay, bond
deduction, hospitalization, income tax, union dues, credit
union, Community Chest end other miscellaneous deductions, were
included.

Hitchcock's Method for Svaluating the Roots of a Polynomial

A basic 650 program was prepared fér evaluating~fhé roots
of a polynomial, Particular emphasis was given To a con-
gideration of polynomials which cannot be handied by this method.

Study of Series-Parallel Switching Functions

A basic 650 program was prepared for evaluating the
switching functions of six or fewer variables. The program
employed is a modification of the McCluskey Quine reduction
procedure by means of which the preliminary implicants and
minimum sum forms of the switching functions were obtained.
The solutions of 86 different problems were performed during
the course of this study.

Solution of Spheriodal Antennse Equation Using the 650

A NOPI program was prepared for the selution of this
equation using Milne's predictor-coxrector formulae.

650 Soclution of the Production Scheduling Problem

A MITSS program was prepared for the solution of this
problem which determined production curves which minimize cosis
for a single arbitrary sales forecast. Graphical results were
obtained which related the sensitivity of the solutions for
various system parameters using a quadratic production cost
function.