COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

BULLETIN Number 15
December 1, 1960

Index of Share Distributed Programs

The index of Share-distributed programs has become such a large
document (43 pages the last time) that the usual method of producing and
distributing it has become impractical. Instead, this index will be kept omn
file, in pucnhed-card form, as if it were itself a Share-distributed program,
¥hile at the Center, programmers may request @ listing of or a copy of this
deck by £illing out a card processing requisition and asking for the "Share
index". Out-of-town users may request copies by mail to Judy Spall, Room 26-153.
This card deck will be updated about every three months,

Fortran-Fap System Library

Enclosed with this copy of the Bulletin is a list of the subprograms
currently on the FMS library tape. Copies of the writeups of these routines,
as well as extra copies of this 1list, are available in Room 26-153, Judy Speall
will see that mail requests are answered. "

FMS Notes
FMS users should be aware of the following items,

1) FLIP cards, which are produced before the punched ocutput of each
job and before each binary subprogram deck, can be left in the card decks and
will be ignored during loading. FLIPped around 80O they are readable, they
serve as teb cards since the corner cuts will be reversed.

2) Starting December 1, 1980, jobs will be terpinated when thelir
lines of cutput exceeds (by 25%) the "estimated lines of output” specified
on the ID card, This is a safeguard ageinst wild output loops., To facilitate
this change, any programmers who have card decks of (STH) and (SPH) should
exchange then for mew ones. Incidentally, the estimated lines of output
ghould include any break-point F2Z2PM output.

3) F2PM, the new post-mortem program, is now on the systems tape
and is part of the "standard” operating procedures. (See CC lMemoranda 187.)
The following changes have been neccesary.

a) All main subprograms ccompiled by Fortran have two additional
precompiled instructions - CLA $(F2PM) and STO 7 - to set up the
manual restart entry point., FAP msin subprograms should also
contain these two instructions,

b) The subprogram EXIT has been modified to call (F2PM) which
returns control to the monitor.