——————

L ; COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
. Minutes of the Third Meeting
~ December 3, 1953

Persons Present: H. Feshbach, C. C. Lin, P. M. Morse,
e - W. W. Seifert, F. M. Verzuh

Morse reviewed the discussions between the Bureau of
Standards Tables Computing Group, the Applied Mathematics Ad-
visory Committee to the Bureau (of which Morse is now chairman),
and the Natlonal Science Foundation regarding a conference on the
needs for numerical tables and facilities for making these tables.
He reported that it had been suggested that MIT sponsor such a ra
conference next spring and the possibility that the Science Foun-
dation could finance such a conference. It was suggested that to
explore these possibilities a subcommittee of Feshbach, Hildebrand,
andtlgorse be set up to report back to the main committee af; some Tuture
ROACIRAT -

Verzuh then reviewed the present operation of the differ-
ential analyzer and its .possible budget for later operation. At
present, the differential analyzer is financed and is completely
used by the Instrumentation Lab. The present budget is about
$30,000 a year for personnel (2 engineers 2chnician, 1 com-
puter) with X0 per cent overhead, about g12,000 a year for ma->% 2w
terials, and this with a small malntenance cost brings the total
5 ' budget to a a year. Verzuh reported that onm an

¢ austerity basis the budget could be cut mainly in the personnel
‘cost to about $20,000 a year.

; | Seifert outlined in a similar manner the budget for the
- DACL analogue computer. The present budget is over a half million
a year, but if the machine were cut down to one row of DC equip-
ment and one row of AC equipment (allowing nearly 100 operations,
such as integration or multiplication), the budget then, including
2 or 0(3)0 techniclans and a supervisor and engineer, would be about
= a year. - f

 

 

    
 

     

    

  
  

  

 

Verzuh then reviewed the IBM equipment. At present,
the budget 1s szbout 85,000 a year, which includes salaries for
about 8 people, material of about $3,000, and IPM remtal, for the
rest of which 17,000 a year is needed for equipment used by the
Institute in its administration. On an austerity basis Verzuh
recommended that several of the machines be relinquished (such
as the 604) and that the staff could be reduced to 3 or 4. The
budget then would come to F17,000 for the equipment needed for
MIT administration, 21,000 for search computing equipment, and
about 12,000 for salaries, making a total minimum budget of about
$50,000 a year. This could, of course, be reduced materially if ..
IBM would reduce its rental charges on part or all of the equipment.

Then followed a general discussion concerning what
’ equipment should be kept and how the committee should recommend

 

&