COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

BULLETIN Number 15
December 1, 1960

Index of Share Distributed Programs

The index of Share-distributed programs has become such a large
document (43 pages the last time) that the usual method of producing and
distributing it has become impractical. Instead, this index will be kept om
file, in pucnhed-card form, as if it were itself a Share-distributed program,
While at the Center, programmers may request a listing of or a copy of this
deck by f£illing out a card processing requisition and asking for the "Share
index". Out-of-town users may request copies by mail to Judy Spall, Room 26-153.
This card deck will be updated about every three months,

Fortran-Fap System Library

Enclosed with this copy of the Bulletin is a list of the subprograms
currently on the FMS library tape. Copies of the writeups of these routines,
as well as extra copies of this list, are available in Room 26-153, Judy Spall
will see that mail requests are answered. cr

FMS Notes
FMS users should be aware of the following items,

1) FLIP cards, which are produced before the punched output of each
job and before each binary subprogram deck, can be left in the card decks and
will be ignored during loading. FLIPped around 80 they are readable, they
serve as teb cards since the corner cuts will be reversed.

2) Starting December 1, 1980, jobs will be terninated when thelr
lines of output exceeds (by 25%) the "estimated lines of output” specified
on the ID card, This is a safeguard ageinst wild output loops. To facilitate
this change, any programmers who have card decks of (STH) and (SPH) should
exchange then for mew ones. Incidentally, the estimated lines of output
ghould include any break-point FZPM output.

3) F2PM, the new post-mortem program, is now on the systems tape
and is part of the standard” operating procedures. (See CC Memoranda 187.)
The following changes have been neccesary.

a) All main subprograms compiled by Fortran have two additional
precompiled instructions - CLA $(F2PM) and STO 7 - to set up the
manual restart entry point. FAP mein subprograms should also
contain these two instructions,

b) The subprogram EXIT has been modified to call (F2PM) which
returns control to the monitor,


c) End-of -files encountered on the RUN INPUT TAPE (logical 4) by
read statements will terminate the Job without calling (F2PNM).

d) The BSS Control Record has been changed to save a subprogram
storage map in core. The following F2PM request will dump this
storage map:

FORTRAN 1 PM 2 MZVIE) (00,1000), ALL, @FF, REV

e) Programmers who have storage limitations and so do not want
(FZPM), must provide a dummy (F2PM) available inp Room 26-058,

SESAP

As of December 1, 1960, the version of 9aAP in use at the Center will
produce column binary decks off-line (tape B4) as its standard output, 9AP
users requiring row binary decks must specify that the assembler is to be
run with sense switch 4 down which causes on-line punching.

704 Systems

It is still possible to obtain copies of the Center 704 Systems
Tapes (Automatic Operator Program, MIPMR1, F2PAK etc.) if you feel they may
be of value to you. To obtain such copies you must supply your own tape reels
and, of course, the Center cannot be responsible for their operation at other
installations, If interested, contact Mike Solomita, Manager of Machine Operations,

Card Storage

Many programmers are using the output racks in the Run Processing Room
a8 a storage facility. This is a working area and must be used as such. In
the future, any cards left in those racks or in the output tub more than a few
weeks will be towed away at the owner’s expense.

Procedures Handbook
EE — ttt Ay
At the moment, the new Computation Center's Procedures Handbook is at

the printer. Copies should be available early in December. A notice describing
the distribution of copies will come out at that time.

Saturday Operation
Ee  ————————— ee a

The Center will be open for the benefit of our out-of-town users Saturday,
December 10, If you plan on coming in that day, please contact

Mike Solomita, Manager of Machine Operations
Room 26-152, Telephone UNiversity 4-6900, extension 4113

so that we may schedule operations. If you have any particular problems
(classes etc.) let us know,


Bits

Judy Spall is now Share Librarian for the Center an on extention of
her duties as Consulting Supervisor--—--- A "Systems Changes Bulletin Board” hss
heen set up in the Run Processing Room. You are expected to read it and keep
posted-----MIT and the Center will close at noon, December 23, and will be closed
all day December 26 and January 2.

C. C. Memoranda

The following memos, of general interest, have come out recently.
Copies are available in Room 26-142,

CC-164~1 An Abbreviated Description of the Fortran Compiler
Language, October 14, 1960.

The Fortran Compiler was initially prepared for the IBM 704 computer
and has subsequently been extended to several other computers. This memo
dezcribes a portion of the Fortran language available on the IBM 709; it is
the essential part and correct programs will result,

CC-166 Card Preparation, October 1260.

Describes the use of the card punch and accounting machines in
sufficient detail for most Programmexs,

CC~167 Description of a Post-Mortem Subprogram (F2PH) for
Use With the Fortran-~FAP Monitor System, October 25, 1960.

Description of and instructions for the use of (F2PM} the standard
dump program at the Center. (See FMS Notes - this Bulletin.)


