Extension of NSF G2940 Page 4

ENCLOSURE B

Excerpts from Original Proposal for Funds
(modified to bring it up to date)

Name and Address of Institution:
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

Title of Proposed Research:
Research on Digital Computer Operation and Utilization

Investigation inte the patterns of operation of electronic
digital computers and the methods whereby they can be used in
mathematical and experimental research; including studies of
numerical analysis and machine programming metheds, investigation
of the possibilities of the complete mechanization of the sequence
of recording, processing, analysis and presentation of experi-
mental data and the working out of such speeifie applications of
machine techniques to problems in science, engineering, and
administration as will clarify the basic research and suggest new
points of view.

Desired Starting Date: September 1, 1956.

Time Period: Three years, with a reassessment during the fall of
1950 to determine whether further support is advisable.

Proposed Research - Background Information:

We are organizing what should be one of the most fruitful
centers for research related to the use of electronic computers
in this country. IBM is contributing one of its 704 machines,
maintained and equipped with appropriate auxiliary equipment.
IBM and MIT are providing the building, part of the new Compton
Laborato®y, and MIT is contributing some of the staff from its
departments of mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and
industrial management. The machine will be available, 35 or more
hours a week, free of machine time charge, to MIT staff and
gstudents for non-clasgified and non-routine research. MIT
research in the Center will be coordinated by the Institute
Machine Computation Committee.

In addition, the Center will be available, up to 35 hours
a week, on the same basis, to other colleges in New England.
Already 23 institutions have indicated thelr interest in partl-
cipating and have appointed faculty members te be thelr Insti-
tutional Representative. These representatives will coordinate
the research done on the machine by students and staff of their
institution. 1IBM is providing some funds for stipends for

graduate students who wish to learn machine use by helping with
some of thils research.

SRR