COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION

Minutee of the Seventh Meeting
cademic Year '5l-'5i

Jergons Present: C. W, Adams, S. H. Caldwell, H. Feshbach,
S 3, Lin, P, M. Morse, and E. Relssner. .

p—

X5

The meeting was taken up with a discussion of appll
sations for assistantships for next y=ar. It was decided to
continue assistiantships for next year for the following pres nt
holders of assistantships: N. H, Hicks and Phyllis A. Fox i
Mathematics, S. Rubinow, F. J. Corbato, M. C, Newstein, L.
Sartori, and A. Temkin in Physies. :

1t was cdecided to mske new appointments to Mr. J. 7.,
d'Donnell in the Che2mienl Engineering Department, to Messrs.
>. Aronson, R. L. Msrtino and A, Ralston in Mathematics and 0
>, Combelic, M. Rotenberg and A, Duren in Physles. H. Glantz
in Mathematics and J, L. Uretsky, J. L. Lebowitz and Re=D.
Haun of Physics wersz other promising candidates. Decision on
these last persons was deferred untll the next meeting. Morse
neanwhile 18 to sece how many assistantships the present fund
gcan afford naxt year. : - ’

Morse reported that Professor Hildebrand has indicatec
an interest in giving & first-term courss in Numerlical Analysis
for seniors and first-vear graduate students, partially %o take
the place of Kopal's courses. It was suggested that perhaps
Dr, Grosch could give a secornd-term course, continuing the ¢ 1b-
jeet and that the othér course in machine programming could e
tied in with theses. It was suggested that this would bes a v3efl
topic for the April meeting of the Committee.

Morse alco reported that Dr. Rubinow had complete. a
fiprst draft of a survey of M.I.T. Computing Machines which 1as
to be dimstributed. After comments and suggestions had been re-

ceived on this fivet draft, the report would then be put in"o
more permanent form if this sppeared desirable.

It was decided to have asnother meetlng at 2 p.m.
Wednesday, March 10%h, %o continue discussions on appointme: ts

for next year.

—d M Wee

PhilipA\ M. Morse

drilssoe Chairman