or higher level; such programs do not produce computed numbers,

they produce programs which then produce numbers, thereby increasing
mechine time somewhat but reducing considerably the time and effort
of the occasional user.

The TO4 at the Center has available the usual assembly
programs - the SAP and the more ambitious FORTRAN systems. The Center
staff have already added improvements to these, such as a Post Mortem
program so that the TO§F may help in analyzing coding errors. They
are engaged in setting an Automatic-~Operator System which will con-
siderably increase the efficiency of use of the machine. In addition,
they are investigating various possibilities of making the next big ‘
step in translation from "mathematical language" to "machine language",
beyond Fortran. :

As more and more computations are done on 7O4's, more and
more programs are written which can be used by others desiring to
carry out similar computations. Each such program, to be useful, of
course must have ifs write-up giving accuracy, limits of validity and
other explanatory and cautionary remarks, and must be prepared in card-
deck or magnetic tape form so it can be readily inserted as a part of
some overall program.

Preparation of such a library of sub-routines is part of the
task of the staff. Even the routines put out by the SHARE organization
(the users of 704 machines) had required testing and evaluating to be
useful for our open-shop operation. The SHARE Library is also deficient
in regard to function generation. Conseguently some of the routines
developed for Whirlwind are being re-programmed for the TO4 and the
special funection routines, developed at Los Alamos, are also being
adapted for our library. By spring we should have a more complete
library than many 704 installations and probably one more spread in its
applicability than most.

The present staff of the Center is inadequate to keep up with
the day-by-day demands for help and for preparing sub-routines for
general use. Consequently, work on the more ambitious systems for
simplifying machine control, which are planned, is going slowly. Unless
more staff can be employed, the machine®s usefulness to the faculbty
and students of the cooperating colleges and universities will be more
limited Than we would desire. ‘

‘pevelo%ment.gg.Auxiliary Equipment - 1In many experiments a

great number o ata are recorded, which must then be analyzed graphically
or analytically before results of scientific interest emerge. If the

data must be transcribed several times errors arise, and much time is

lost if such transcription in analysis is done by hand. In many cases

it turns out to be worthwhile to arrange to have the data recorded in

a form which the 704 will accept and to program the machine to carry

out the analysis and to record the results in understandable form.