t
provided with a head 46 at one end and a socke

47 at the other. ‘
29 Figure 8 is a cross-secll
of the bead of Figures 1 and 2
socket is formed by a cylindrica
a throat 51 formed by an In
flange 52.

on of a modified form

In Figure 8, the
1 cavity S0 having
wardly-directed

The Claims :

A series of claims followed the Specfi.ﬁ'
cation. Each claim attempted to de mg
an invention by reciting structural anf
interrelational features of one or more o
the embodiments disclosed.

If any claims are later allowed by the
Examiner, they may become part of a
patent to be granted on this dlsclpsure,
and such claims will then constitute a
legal grant, to the patentee, of the rightto
prevent others from making, usingor sel-
ling these inventions, as defined by the
claims, during the term of the patent.

An applicant, in preparing claims for an
application, attempts to define in words,
every set of characteristics or details
which he believes he has invented. Such
details may be numerous. Hence he
prepares a number of different claims,
in which he permutes and combines these
details. Thus an application may often
have a substantial number of claims.

Claims which permute and combine
those details which apply to a single em-
bodiment of an inventive thought, will be
a series of specific claims of varying
scope to this single embodiment, while
those which app}y.to the common concept
of several eml?odlments will be generic
claims of varying but broader scope than
those to the separate embodiments.

Herew@th are 17 of the claims which
the appl%can.t presented in this illustra-
tive application:

9.. A set of beads formed of resilient syn-
thetic plastic material, wherein each bead is
formed as a bulbo ‘

. 8 a us member with a socket and
with a neck carrying a head, the neck and head
being disposed : :

g disposed on the bulbous portion diametri-
cally opposite the socket, said head being smaller
In size than the bulboys portion and said
Ravie socket

g a mouth of smaller crogs. i
e noetars : 88-8ection than
OCKket interior, the heads and h
various beads beij s onthe
. a Ing 80 shaped and dimensi
In relation to one another th e
at the head on one

10

bead will not ordinarily pass through the moy
of the socket of another but, due to the Tesilience
of the material, can be forced through With
snap action when it is desired to join twg beadg
toge[her. X

10. A set of beads as claimed ip claim 9
wherein the bulbous members are all of gjm; ar
size and wherein the heads on all the beag
the same size and the mouths of the gock
all the beads are the same size.

11. A set of beads as claimed in clajp 9
wherein the bulbous members are of differen;
sizes and wherein the heads on at least a]] of ,
group of the beads are the same size apqg the
mouths of the sockets on at least all of group
of the beads are the same size.

12. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9
wherein at least one of the beads is a hollou;
member.

13. A set of beads as claimed in claim 12,
wherein said hollow member is formed of two
parts which are joined together.

14. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9,
wherein at least one of the beads is formed by a
double moulding process.

15. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9,
wherein at least one of the beads is formed with
an additional socket whereby it may be joined
to those other beads.

16. A set of beads as claimed in claim 9,
wherein at least one of the beads is formed with
an additional head and neck whereby it may be
joined to those other beads.

17. A set of beads formed of resilient syn-
thetic plastic material, wherein each bead is
formed as a bulbous member, beads tobe joined
being formed one with a neck carrying a head
and the other with a socket, said socket having a
mouth of smaller cross-section than the socket
interior, the heads and mouths on beads to be
joined being so shaped and dimensioned inrela-
tion to one another that the head will not ordi-
narily pass through the mouth but can be forced
through with a snap action when it is desired
to join the beads together.

18. A set of beads made of resilient synthetic
plastic material, which beads are formed of a
number of groups of integrally moulded beads,
the beads in a group being moulded with thin in-
tel:connecting necks, and the groups to be Jomed
being formed at one end with a neck carrying a
head and at the other end with a socket, said
socket having a mouth of smaller cross-section
than the socket interior, the heads and mouths
On groups to be joined being so shaped
dimensioned in relation to one another that the
head will not ordinarily pass through the mO{“h
but €an be forced through with a snap action
When it is desired to join the groups.

8 are
€ts on

20. In a series of beads, a first bead com-
prising a body of resilient synthetic plastic

‘material and having a neck portion of resilient

synthetic plastic material extending from one
side of said body, a head carried at the end of
said neck of larger cross sectional size than the
neck, said body having a hollow portion forming
a socket having a mouth spaced from said neck
portion, the opening of said mouth being smaller
in cross sectional area than the opening inside
of said mouth, and at least one additional bead
having a similar neck, head and hollow body
portion, made of similar resilient synthetic
plastic material, the head of said additional bead
being of larger cross sectional area than the
mouth of said hollow portion of the first bead
but of smaller cross sectional area than the
opening inside of said mouth whereby two ad ja-
cent beads may be snapped together or apartdue
to the resilience of the head and mouth of the
respective beads.

21. The beads as set forth in claim 20 com-
prising a plurality of permanently attached beads
formed of one integral piece of synthetic plastic
material with a neck and head on the bead at a
first end of the plurality and a socket with said
mouth formed in the bead at the opposite end.

22.. The beads as set forth in claim 20 in
which the head of said bead is substantially
spherical and in which the opening of said mouth
is substantially circular in cross section.

23. The beads as set forth in claim 20 in
which said mouth is below the external surface
of the body and comprises an inwardly converg-
ing passage extending from the surface of the
body.
24. The beads as set forth in claim 20
wherein said head is of conico spherical form
with the apex directed outwardly.

25. The beads as set forth in claim 20
wherein said beads are formed of polyethylene.

26. A set of beads made up of a chain of a
plurality of beads formed of resilient synthetic
plastic material, each of said plurality of beads
comprising a bead-like body position having a
neck of substantial length extending from one
side thereof, said neck having an enlarged gen-
erally spherical portion at the end thereof, a
round socket having a mouth of reduced area ex-
tending inwardly from the side opposite to said
neck portion, the narrowest portion of said mouth
of reduced area being situated inwardly of the
surface of said body portion and connecting with
the surface by an outwardly diverging opening,
the head of each of said beads being fitted in the
socket of an adjacent bead to form a string of
beads with the mouth of the socket surrounding

11

a portion of said neck adjacent the head thereof,
the head of each of said beads having such a
diameter that it will not ordinarily pass through
the mouth of reduced area of the next adjacent
bead, the said head however, due to the resilience
of the material, being removable from said
mouth with a snap action to open said chain.

27. A set of beads made up of a chain of a
plurality of beads formed substantially entirely
of polyethylene, each of said plurality of beads
comprising a bead-like body portion having a
neck of substantial length extending from one
side thereof, said neck having an enlarged
generally spherical portion at the end thereof,
a round socket having a mouth of reduced area
extending inwardly from the side opposite to
said neck portion, the narrowest portion of said
mouth of reduced area being situated inwardly
of the surface of said body portion and connect-
ing with the surface by an outwardly diverging
opening, the head of each of said beads being
fitted in the socket of an adjacent bead to form
a string of beads with the mouth of the socket
surrounding a portion of said neck adjacent the
head thereof, the head of each of said beads
having such a diameter that it will not ordi-
narily pass through the mouth of reduced area
of the next adjacent bead, the said head however,
due to the resilience of the polyethylene, being
removable from said mouth with a snap action
to open said chain.

It will be noted that, by means of in-
clusion of one or more specific details,
the applicant had directed different claims,
either generically, subgenerically, or spe-
cifically, to each of the seven illustra-
tive species of his disclosed inventions
(see the specification paragraphs 15to 22,
inclusive.) For example, claim 8 was di-
rected generically to a set of beads as
illustrated in figure 3 (exhibit 1), although.
the individual beads could also consist of
the type illustrated in figures 1 and 2, 5,
6, or 8, or to any combination of two or
more of them; claim 11, specifically to
the set of beads as illustrated in figure 3
exclusively; claims 12 and 13 to a set of
the beads made up from the species of
figure S exclusively; claim 15 to a set
of beads made up from the species of
figure 6 exclusively; and claim 18 to a
set of beads made up from the species
of figure 7 exclusively.