lay 13, 1959

Protessor Nicholas letropolis
Enrico [ermi Institute
University oi Chicago

5640 Ellis Avenue

Chicago 37, illineis

Deer Professor lietropol is:

Last sulser when I mas at Fadicott at the IBM Contennce
tor Directors or University Computing Centers, I was asked to do
some thinking about organizing further meetings of Directors or
these Centers and, in tact, whether it would be appropriate for
such Directors to organise themselves into a formal or informal
society. I have hesitated for some time as to that action is
appropriate, partly because i as aildly opposed to proliferating
additional societies or conventions and, partly because I have been
extremely busy this year. It was, however, suggested that a meeting
or people interested in this general iield night be arranged either
before or alter the ACI meeting here this tall. A recent talk with
the local Program Committee for this meeting, however, discouraged
this action and I am somewhat at a loss as to where to go next.
Consequently, I an writing for your advice.

It is pertectly true that the Directors of university
computing centers have problems which are not touched on in the
present Anti meetings or in other computer meetings. They are, of
course, more in the nature of administrative problems, although
these certainly can be real. 'hether they could be helped by
having occasional meetings at which these problems can be discussed
or whether they can be taken care of adequately by internal discus-
sion at meetings such as the ACE, I am not sure. It is possible, if
only occasional meetings would be useful, that the National Science
Foundation would be willing to be of financial help. What is needed,
however, is some indication from you who are directing university
computing centers as to the need tor such a meeting and the possible
agenda, it it is needed. There is to be an Eastern Computer Conference
in Cambridge later in the year. This meeting could be scheduled
near it, if such action seemed appropriate. 0n the other hand, there
may be advantages in meetings separate from such large convocations
at some quiet spot where we could talk things over at leisure. Or,
01 course, we should not meet at all.


Prat . N. ﬂux-ope! il 2 .

ﬂy 13, 1959

I will b. satin at the In! Contennce in June where, I an
turn, the topic will cone up again. I would certainly appreciate
your cannon“ on thin 36

non). question, particularly if they can
reach I! boron Jun. 15.

 

Sincerely ,

Phil 1!: M. Home
Director

FEM/b1


