Minutes of the Sixth ﬂeeting
of the
Committee on Machine Methods of Computation
January 3, 1951 ‘

Members Present: H. Feshbach, J. w. Forrester, Z. Kopal, C. Lin,
and E. Reissner

The Committee, in the first part of its meeting, continued
the discussion of courses presently available at the Institute on
numerical analysis and possible additions to such. In the Mathe-
matics Department there are two such courses: (1) M54, which
deals with such topics as numerical and graphical methods and
elementary numerical analysis; (2) a course in integral equations,
M631, which contains some applications of numerical analysis to
that subject. There is a course in the Mechanical Engineering
Department, 2.215T. It is expected that this would be an advanced
course involving the application of numerical techniques to the
vibrations of discrete and continuous systems. Forrester's group
intends to offer a course in the Electrical Engineering Department
under the heading of nSpecial Problems in blectrical Engineering"
(6.68). This would essentially be a continuation of the course
Welchman gives. It'would be primarily a laboratory course, which
will emphasize the use of the Whirlwind and will have the intent
of familiarizing the students with its operational procedures.

 

The Committee then turned to a discussion of whether the
courses on numerical analysis given st the Institute are suffi-
ciently complete. Kopal emphasized the point that the cleavage
of mathematical analysis and the machine use of same should not
be maintained; particularly, the problem of how to arithmetize a
problem for a given machine should be treated somewhere. The
Committee then outlined a course for Numerical Analysis for the
equations of mathematical physics. This can be conveniently
broken up into two parts: (1) Background material which should
include the classification of partial differential equations and
boundary conditions, the proper coordinate systems for each type
of equation and the ways in Which the problem can be formulated;
viz., as an integral or as a variational problem. (2) Methods
which should include perturbation methods, variation methods,
iterations and arithmetization. The discussion of these should
be oriented toward 1 the eventual solutions of the problems by
numerical methods 2 their range of applicability. It should be
emphasized that all of these methods are interwrelated and can be
used together on a given problem. in the problem of numerical :
analysis one is interested in combining the process oi arithmetizaw
tion with other members of this group. In concluding the dis»
cussion on this course, it was emphasized that the question of