S

Oo-2 M.X.T. Computation Center Page 2 of

LIST OF CQPUTATION CENTER FUND ACCOUNTS

The following accounts are chargeable to various specigl grants and
other sources of operating income:

1 Caomputation Center OPERATING Account #2756
At S ——— S —————  ———— T

Income received in this account will be derived from &
programming sexrvice charge levied gsgainst all useys of the
Computation Center facilities., These monies will be used to
cover operating costs =-- salaries of schedulers, key punch
operators, machine operators, programmers, analysts, and
other salaries and expenses occasioned by the use of the
Center beyond specific activities of the XIBM contract.

2 PARTICIPATING Colleges Operating Account - IBM #2757

1Bk has agreed to pay $10,000 to cover the cost of expenses
incurred in scheduling, administrating, and servicing the
New England colleges operations as described in Paragzraph 186
in the operating agreement.

3  MIT Machine Operator Account -~ IBM M2T57A

The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators as described in
Paragraph 17 oif the operating agrecment.

W

 

 

 

N.E. Colleges Machine QOperator Account - IBM #2757

The I.B.M. Coxypormation has agreed to pay the salaries of one
key punch operator and two machine operators for the second
shift as soon as the 704 machine usage in the second shift
is adequate -- ap deseribed in Paragraph 18 of the cperating
agreement.

5 MIT Research Assigtant-Associate Account - IEM #2757C
The I.B.M. Corporation has agreed to pay $30,000 per year to
defray the salary exvense of research assi naﬂps and associates
assigned to the Center in sccordance with Paragrsph 19 of the
operating agreement,

6 ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION FUND $#2759
The Rockefeller Foundation has eppropriated $98,000 for a
three~year program in conngction with the u‘;.T5 Computation Center,

7 National Science Foundation PFund HFDSR 7573

 

 

 

he National Science Foundation has appropriated a $30,
'S

A

nt for support of the Computation Center activities.