M.I.T. Computation Centexr Page 4 of 10
Title of Pos:ltion: m.scmomc ACCOUNTING MACHINE (EAM) OPERATOR

DUTIES
The duties include the following:

1. Interpreting cards,

2. Sorting cards,

3. Listing caxds,

4. Reproducing cards,

3. Selecting, matching, merging, and checking cavds,
6. Calculating results.

The above operaticns have been mechanized on a functional kasis by special IBM machines
known as Interpreters, Sorters, Printers, Reproducers, Collators, and Calculators,
respeciively. Depending on the size of the office, the degree of specialization of
.machine operations varies comsiderably. For example, a large office may have multiple
units identified as the Key Punch Unit, the Sorter Unit, the Reproducer and Tabulator
Unit, and the Collator and Calculator Unit, respectively. In the M.I.¥. Compuiation
Center, however; the size of the EAM Unit is such that EAM operations are usually
limited to a two-machine-of-a~type..  As a result, the EAM operators are expecsed to be
more versatile and able to operate various machines,

Depending upon the type of work flow within the EAM office, there may be more or less
need for changing of control panel wiring on certain machines. 8pecifically, in the
operation of a routine nature -~ payroll, registrar, bursar -~ the need for changing
sel ups ig limited. Oan the other hand, scientific computation ené research demands
all skills of machine operators since many dif!erent contxrol panels must be wired,
used occasionally, and dismantled. :

QUALIFICATIONS
1. Educational Background: high school education or equivaleant is requited.

2. Natural Ability snd Aptidude: since a machine coperator is handling a large number
cof cards, a certain amount of manual dexterity is required. Specifically, cands
must not be dropped, nishandiled, or abused.

S. Previcus Experience: 1t is possible to hire a completely inexperienced individual
and send him to specirl IBi-offered courses of instructior on machine operation and
machine wiring, respectively Obviously previous EAM experience is extremely
valuable since a proficient knowledge of wiring can only be obtain by actual
experience. The rate of pay, of course, is governed accordingly.

4, Technical Skills: a top-notch EAM operator is capable of wiring the following EAM
machines: a) Interpreter Type 552, b) Reproduser Types 513, 514, 5192, 526, and
928, c¢) Tabulator Types 402, 403, 4056, 407, d) Collator Types 077 and 089,

e) Calculator Types 602, 604, G607, Card~Progrqmmed Calculator, and 650 Magnetic
Brum Calculator.

3. Compatibility: it is extremely important that RBAM machine operator, be able to get
along with their fe;1ov workers. Teamvork is essentisl since common machines are
used and continual "rubbing of shoulders' is a necegsary part of this operation.

6. Phyesical Appearance: a well-grocmed individuasl is likely to produce good work,
since tabulating work is a precise and exacting operation,