July 13, 1958

Dr. Arthur Grad
National Secience Foundation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Arthur:

This is in the nature of a progress report concerning
a possible Conference of Directors of university computing
centers, about which I wrote you early last apring.

After I wrote you I wrote to about a dozen directors
of the larger university centers asking for thelxr reactions
about a separate permanent organization for university computing
center directors. The answers I recelved were nearly unanimous.
They were not enthuslastic about another pemmanent organization
in the computer ficld. They agreed there are a number of probe
lems pecullar to univerasity computing centers which ought to be
talked over in common from time to %ime. They wondered if
special meetings could be called about the time of an ACM or
Joint Computer Conference or whethe: one or two single confer-
ences would not accomplish what was needed. Several of the
letters mentioned speciflic problems of interest, such as the
problem of financlng the computing ecenter while still keeping
it avallable for students and faculty, also the gquestions of
academic standards and the status of research on machines,

Last month I attended a conference cslled by IBM at
Poughlktcepsie for the dlrectors of university computing centers
using IBM eguipment. About 30 of the 85lnown directors of col-
lege computing centeors were there, mostly directors of centers
having 650's. We had an evening scesion concerning thls ganme
preblem. There again, the feeling was that 1t was premature to
talk about a permonent organization. However, I found a mach
greater need for general discugslon and mutual agreement on
varicus matters among this group which represcnted the smaller
and newer computing centers rather than the representatives of
older and larger centers to whom I had written beforec. This
group felt the need of support for thelr plans and suggestions
for what are wise and unwise means of finanecing and help in
determining procedures and academic standords. After an
evening's discussion we set up an informal planning group with