. COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

BULLETIN Number 15
- November 28, 19€0

Index of Share Distributed Progrlug

The index of Share~distributed programs has become such a large
document (43 pages last time) that the usual method of producing and
distributing it has become impracticel. Instead, this index will be kept on

file, in punched-card form, as 1f it were itself & Share-distributed prograa.

While at the Center, programmers may request & listing of or & copy of this
deck by £illing out & card processing requisition and asking for "the Shere

~index". Out-of-town users may request copies by meil to Judy Spzll, Room 28-153.

This card deck will be updated about every three months,

Fortran-Fap Systeam library

Enclosed with this copy of the Builetin is a list of the subprograms
currently on the FMS library tape. Copies ¢f the writeups of these routines,
as well as extra copies of this list, are available in Room 28-153, Judy Spall
will see that mail requests are answered.

FMS Notes

FMS users should be aware of the following items,

1) FLIP cards, which are produced before the punched output of each
job and before each binary subprogram deck, can be left in the card decks and
will be ignored during loading. FLIPped around so they are readable, they
serve as tab cards since the cormer cuts will be reversesd.

2) Starting December 1, 1960, jobs will be terminated when their
lines of output exceeds (by 25%) the "estimated lines of output' specified
on the ID card. This is a safeguard against wild output loops. To facilitate
this change, any programmers who have card decks of (STH) and (SPH) should
exchange them for new ones. Incidentally, the estimated lines of output
should include any break-point F2PM output.

3) F2PM, the new post-mortem program, is now on the systems tape

and is part of the "standard" operating precedures. (See CC Memoranda 167.)
The following chenges have been necessary.

a8) All main subprograms compiled by Fortran have two additional
precompiled instructions - CLA $(F2PM) and ST0 7 - to set up the
manual restart entry point. FAP main subprograms should also
contain these two instructions.

b) The subprogram EXIT has been modified to call (F2FM) which
returns control to tbe monitor.

-