COMPUTATION CENTER
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Quarterly Progress Report

and

Computer Time Request

Dear Sir:

As a user of the Computation Center's facilities, you are asked to file
a progress report with the Center each quarter. The attached form is meant
to simplify this task and channel your efforts.

Much of the information requested here is reported in the Center's
Semi-Annual Report. This report will summarize and classify this data for
the benefit of present and future users and the sponsors of the Center.

Some other purposes of this report are to:

1) serve as a request form for next quarter's computer time,

2) allow the Center to update its operating records,

3) give the Center a clearer picture of its user's interests and needs.

The completed form should be returned to:

Dr. F. Jd. corbatd, Associate Director
Computation Center, Room 26-142
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

Since this information should appear in our eighth semi-annual report
which is due in January, 1961, a prompt return of this form would be appreciated.

7). Cts?

Foiido corbatd
Associate Director


Sune 30 rel Ca

 

Puutig this quer Aries. work Was die ‘the: préparation or a Winass dake
tape and on ‘Goding programs for analysis of these data. Wills the project ves mot
completed as originally planned, several advances were made.

oi 1) the Gata tape profusing unting was rewritten 1a sepacablé fuss. to Sliow” Le
date in a different format to be handled in the same manner as was the origimal set,
In the process, new types of errors were discovered in the data, so that more ex-
tensive diagnostics had to be writven. Also, & more aophisticated input and output

Fostine was ineluied in the sepsrable sols, Big JEoETS pa Sox yEolused WU fipst.
complete data tape. te

2) fe bul or he narrate emits va completed, ond redsmsrasy
order size ana. ysi Was performed,

er 3) soiaral new programs were written for ing the results of these analyses
43 Jotyariug The Sescytayiiiey a various wetiels of farsensiis, 354 \hess pvgrans
have been partially debugged.

Since 1+ was expacted that all production rus vould be made in the quarter
Just completed; and . computer time was assigned accordingly, a good percentage of
this time was left unused, The project will be completed in the coming quarter,
with production runs to be made in this period. A report including suggestions
made and conclusions “Tearned will be deferred wail the end of this time,


