TO:

FROM:

DATE :

SUBJECT

 

 

 

Professor P, ¥, Boras
7. ti. Verzub
Avril 6, 195%

Jroposed financing scheme for the new M.I1.T. Computation Center

iv view of QNR's refusal to contribuis $30,000 to tho
operation of the BE... ; Comps cation Center, some other method
of obtaining funds must be devised. Several alternative plans
er? available.

PLAN I

 

A rate structure may be established which lavies a charge
on personnel (at a xate 2 or 3 times pregent salary} which is
des igned to recover the operating cost of the center. Since
the 704 machine is provided on a gratis basis, there would he
no machine charge. In this plan, it is of course possible to
solicit contributions from various M.I.T. projects who are
currently contributing to he operation rr Whirlwind. In this

Danner, monies would be received, operating personnel would be
hired; however, ne sin gle gr would be gssigned to a
single sponsoring pr 2 Je ect. Thot is to sk the contribution by
+
Sr

¥
er
fd
Wo

2 project does not on them to the scle services of a
particular indivudusl. Thus a common rte Personnel pool
2

would bo established to service sli projects on’ a equitable basis

 

¢
PLAN TI - INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION PROGRAM (ICP)
meen rs a BERRY SAA a arr— a i, her
An alternative method for raising edditional funds for the
Conpnigiion. Center would involve industrial participation. Soma
20 companies {or more’ would be approached and asked for a sum
of $5,000 as a contribution to the M.I.T. Computation Center,
This would entitle them to send one wan to the center to learn
to program and use the 704 Calculator, After the industrial
ropresentative had become proficient in the use of ithe computer,
te would indeed be able to =zolv eccasional problems for his
company, thus providing them a return on fuse investment ($5,000
plus personnel sglary;. In %his manner, 20 companies would
contributes $100,000 to the operation of the center. We a@s zon
educational insti tion would be providing a very effective liaison
with industry. Naturally such cooperation will lsod to New projects
and centinued support. Covicusly, combinetions of Plan I spd iz
may be used,


