r,' r nal ruel sources. |
c) The’third is_the speed revolution,

~ (@ And thé Souitn ¥ the revéiution
brought about by the hlgh-speed elec-
tronic computer.
It is the latter subject whrch as I
- should like to point out today, holds
- breathtaking possibxhtres for man’s bet-
- terment
' COMPUTERS WARN AGAINST ENEMY ATTACK

g As my colleagues are aware, electronic
data processing - systems are, at this
- very moment, at work in the defense of
' the United States. They are receiving
and interpreting masses of information
about planes and objects in the skies
approaching or within continental
~ - United States. And these reports and
interpretations are made with an ac-
curacy and speed which would be impos-
i sible for large numbers of human beings.
J, Electronic brains are now or will in
the future read -books and magazines,
b listen to conversation, “break it down”
to its basic data, and translate foreign
languages.
What seemed to be incredible pre-

viously has already become actuality, if-

only in experimental models, of these
computers.
VITAL ASSISTANCE ON SPKCP DATA

Electronic computers are at work in
our program of the International Geo-
physical Year, compiling masses of data,
partrcula.rly in connection with our pro-
gram in outer space.

The computers are at work in industry
where automation has undoubtedly
reached its highest point to date, in

Then, too, electronically operated cleri-
cal operatxons are advancing productiv=
ity, slashing costs, and thereby strength-
ening United States free enterprise.
Everyone who has ever seen these
electronic marvels in operation, as I
have, in the instance of Operation Van-
- guard, comes away with a deep feeling
of awe at the incredible ingenuity in
] devising and producing them and the al-
/ most fantastic memory systems.which
the machines themselves represent.
Through their internal memory, the
machines file away, in a sort of elec-
tronic cubbyhole, data of unbelievable
complexity and volume which can there-
after be utilized within spht seconds
whenever necessary.
ARTICLE IN WISCONSIN FARM BUREAU NEWS

Two articles in current periodicals

‘point out that electronic brains are at

. work, as well, in the field of agriculture
L and scientific research. Thus the May

3 News, published by the Wisconsin Farm
Bureau Federation in Madison, points
out how improvement of dairy herds is
being aided through data speedily com-
piled and processed by International
Business Machine electronic brains.

) : The second article—far more signifi-
cant—is from the March-April issue of
the magazine Systems, published by
' Remlngton Rand Univac. It describes
‘ how,~in the infinitely more important

L

oo

-

- ™

electronically operated assembly lines.

1958 issue of the Badger Farm Bureau

 

electronic brains are proving vital in
evaluatmg the results, in this instance,
of the testmg of antibiotics.

WHY USE PEN AND INK IN MAGNETIC TAPE AGE?

Research leaders have been tremen-

dously impressed by the huge variety of

uses to which machine processing sys-
tems can be utilized’in bringing together
medical research data.

What would take hundreds, yes, thou-
sands of research man-hours painstak-
ingly to compile or retrieve can be ac-
complished speedily by electronic brains.

"Why use pen and ink or typewriter

methods, recording on paper, when data
can be fed into magnetic drums for far
more expeditious use..

-

Morecver, in those areas of research

where time, particularly, is .of the es-
sence; where the battle for life may be
literally a matter of hours or days or

’

weeks. -installation of more electronic —

brains, carefully adopted, can make-all
the difference in the world.

So it is my hope that, in the great re-
search facilities of this land, in Wash-
ington, D. C., and Bethesda, in the
universities of the Nation, in-the private
and public laboratories, increasing atten-
tion will be devoted to utilizing funds,
wherever available, for the purpose of
putting additional electronic brains to
work as man’s servant and of utilizing to
the fullest the computers we already
POSSess. .

Naturally, overall costs must be cate-
fully weighed. But we must not lose
precious time.

I have utilized the words “electronic
brains.” Actually, these high-speed
computers are really giant slaves. They
will do what you tell them to do—what

- you have instructed them to do. They

will remember past problems and their
solutions of past problems.
HUGE SAVINGS POSSIBLE IN M, V. R. A,
AND OTHER PROJECTS

+  They can save you a fantastic number
of operations.

For example, you can feed informa-
tion into them as to the specifications
that you want, let us say, for an air-
frame or for higﬁ—speed physics accel-
erator like the famous M. V. R. A. proj=

“ect T am supporting.

Computer will report back that, given
the type of performance you want, a par-
ticular design would, or would not, work.
Thus, they can save you the enormously
costly job of building prototypes.

Computers have come a long way from
the relatively simple punchcard sys-
tems, which stored relatively small
amounts of information. Today, the
modern computer contains a fantastical-
ly large bank of storage data; plus the
instructions which you have fed into
them on how to proceed on that data.

WISCONSIN COMPANIES IN FOREFRONT

" In my own State of Wisconsin are a
considerable number of enterprising
companies which are contributing very
significantly to the electronic-computer
industry.

Here, in our Nation’s Capital, many
companies are at work in supplying the
needs of Government agencies. The
usefulness of these machines in Govern-

~as well,

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD —SENATE . 8453
field of the well-being of man, himself,

ment census-type statistical activities is
readily apparent.

But, only®how are many agencies real-
izing that on virtually any complex,
voluminous subject where armies of
statisticians and mathematicians have
heretofore been necessary, the giant
electronic brain can prove indispensable.

Think, for example, how we can uti-
lize vital information in serving, let us
say, the medical needs of the service- -
men in our Nation’s Veterans’ Adminis-
tration hospitals. Think of the untold
uses possible at the National Institutes
of Health—uses which, I am glad to say,
are already beginning to be realized.,

I am no scientist and.I am no expert -

on these computers, but I say that elec-
tronic computers represent a. _revolution, oo
in fact, which can open up magniﬁcent 1 e

e

possibﬂlties for the well-being of man.
We are fortunate that some of the

W e

 

greatest engineering and mathematical

minds of our land are already-at work
in this field, for example, the Associa-
tion of Computing Machinery, the Insti-

tute for Radio Engineers, the American s 7.
The'. X ;' ‘:‘b_:

Institute of Electrical Engineers;
alert National Science Foundation is ex=
tensively supporting university com-
puter projects, and the National Bureau
of Standards has been extremely active,
There are also other enheart-
ening evidences that America intends to
be first in this vital field.

Thus, let us be sure we are in tune
and harmony with each of the four rev-
olutions to which I have referred—the
social, atomic, jet, and electronic revolu-
tions. :

I ask unanimous consent that both‘
articles to which I have referred be
printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the articles
were ordered to be printed in the REec-
ORD, as follows: ;
[From the Badger Farm Bureau News for

May 1958]

ELECTRONIC BrAIN SPEEDS Cow TESTING

Electronic brains are ready to give a big
boost to cow testing in Wisconsin. Farm

- Bureau hails the advances that are being

made and urges wider participation in dairy

. herd improvement (DHIA) to raise farm in-

come.

There is a big job to be done ridding Wis-
consin of unprofitable cows. - Electronic com-
puting machines can get the job done faster.
Less than 10 percent of the cows have rec-
ords in some of our important dairy coun-
ties. Winnebago County does best in the
State with 27.8 percent on test.

Good dairymen know that testing is the
only sure way to find the least profitable
cows. Betsy, a 5,000-pound cow, will pay
you only $136 over feed cost; Flossie, pro=
ducing 11,000 pounds, will return you $272.
Betsy’s feed cost per 100 pounds of milk is
$2.72, says USDA; Flossie will give you 100
pounds for almost $1 less. |

Despite improvement, Wisconsin still has
too many Betsys. The State average for all
cows last year was 7,640 pounds. The aver-
age cow in DHIA, however, gave over a ton
more—29,767 pounds of milk, Testing and
culling pay.

There have been few changes In cow test-
ing since DHIA began 52 years ago. The
fieldman collects the samples, runs the Bab-
cock test, and figures out the record sheets—
if he has time. The owner-sampler system
came in with the manpower ' shortage of
World War II and now includes 71 percent of =
Wisconsin herds on test. About 88 farmers

——