Adninistrative Memorandum A-1 | Page 1 of 10

M.1.T. Computation.benter

Massachuscetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Massachusetts

To: Professor P. M. Morse Date: October 27, 1956

From;  Dr. Frank M. Verzuh

Subjsct: JOB DESCRIPTION FOR COMPUTATION CENTER PERSONNEL

Introduction

The purpose of this memorandum is to enumexrate the principal categories

- of non-staff and staff personnel positions and o provide the job description of
each. The job descriptions presented in this memorandum must of necessity be
somewhat general. On the other hand, it is hoped that they are sufficiently detailed
to assist in the actual procurement of personnel to f£ill the respective positions,

An attempt has been made to establish the minimum starting requirements for
the various positions. However,every effort should be made to obtain candidates whose
qualifications exceed the minimnm requirements. .

In order to assist the Personnel O0ffice in their Job of weeding and selecting
candidates for interviews at the Computation Center, there are at least five (5)
general qualifications which should be examined prior to arrangement of an interview
with the Computation Centexr Personnel Officer. These general qualifications are:

1. Educational background,

2. Natural ability and aptitude,
3. Previous éxperiencé,

4, Technical skills,

5. Denonstrated compatibility -- ability to work with others,
teamwork, etc.,

6. Physical appearance.

The exact definition of the above‘fivo qualifications varies with the particular job
description involved. Hence, succegding sections of this report will clarify the
meaning of these terms. ,

There are many types of jobs available in the M.I.T. Computation Center. The
following list includes the principal ones:

. Administrative personnel -~ personnel officer, project supervisor,

. Office personnel -~ secretary, clerk, typists,

Tape Room -~ clerk, flexoWriter cperator, supervisor, etc.,

achine oOperators - WWI computer opersior, photogzrapher, supsrvisor,
IBM Caxrd Punch operator - key punch operator

> =~
o

°