problems simply can’t be done on a mail-order basis,
so to speak.

Another example will show how programs are com-

bined and telescoped together as we learn how to use
the equipment. A number of years ago some of us com-
puted, by hand, a set of energy values for atomic wave
functions of simple analytic form, as functions of the
parameters of the form. These tables enabled one, by
use of the variational principle, to obtain reasonably ac-
curate, analytic wave functions for the lower states of
atoms in the first row of the periodic table. Partly for
training purposes, partly because the tables still seemed
to be useful, Arnold Tubis, of our group, recently re-
computed these tables, using Whirlwind. He programmed
the machine to compute kinetic energies, nuclear poten-
tial energies, interaction and exchange energies for s, p,
and d wave functions of the form of an exponential
times a combination of r, for a large number of dif-
ferent values of the exponential scale factors. The pro-
gram also included instructions to the output unit so
the results came out of the automatic typewriter in
final table form, ready for offset photographic printing.

These tables will be published sometime this fall.
I hope they will be useful to those people who haven’t
access to a machine like Whirlwind, but I am already
sure we won’t use them at Tech. For the calculation of
such energy values is now an established subroutine,
taking only a few seconds of machine time. It is much
more efficient to ask the machine to recompute this
value when it is needed than it is to look up the value,
put it back in the machine and have it using up a stor-
age register, waiting until it is needed.

Last fall Tubis programmed the machine to take the
next step and carry out the variation to find the best
values of the parameters. The general program specifies
the nuclear charge and the electronic configuration de-
sired; the subroutines developed earlier tell the machine
how to compute a trial value of the energy for a given
choice of parameters. Then the general program tells
the machine to compute a sequence of energy values
for a sequence of points in parameter space, how to
direct this sequence so it approaches the minimal point,
and, finally, to stop the sequence when the energy
value has become stationary and to print out the corre-
sponding energy and parameter values.

Another ambitious job, done last year by J. D. C:
Little and F. J. Corbaté, was the computation of a 500-
page table of spheroidal wave functions. These wave
functions can be expressed as a series of spherical har-
monics, the successive coefficients in the series being
related by a three-term recursion formula. The equa-
tion for the separation constant thus involves a con-
tinued fraction, which can be arranged to be solved by
iteration. The program first had the machine perf9rm
this iteration until successive results agreed to exgh.t
decimal places; next, from the recursion formula,. it
was told to compute the ratios between the successive
series coefficients; then, by applying a normalizing con-
dition, to compute the coefficients themselves and
finally to arrange the results on the output tape in the

OCTOBER 1956

23

proper order and with the proper instructions so that
the automatic typewriter would title the page, give the
values of the eccentricity parameter, the separation con-
stants and the series coefficients in appropriately la-
belled columns, and would even print in dots so a
draughtsman could draw lines separating rows and col-
umns. This line ruling was the only hand work done on
any of the 500 pages. They went to the photo-offset
machine practically untouched by human hands.

This program also was done by persons with no
previous computer experience. It took ten man-months
for Little and Corbaté to get an error-free program—
there were about 2000 instructions in the final code. It
took Whirlwind ten hours to do all the calculations and
it took the automatic typewriter more than 200 hours
to type the 500 pages of tables. Here again I hope the
tables (they are published now *) will be of use to those
not sitting next to a high-speed computer, but I don’t
believe they’ll be used at MIT. For this program,
stripped of the instructions for typing out the table, is
now a part of our subroutine library; it only takes
Whirlwind a fraction of a minute to compute a sphe-
roidal wave function, for any order or any ratio of
wave length to interfocal distance, when it is needed
in a more general calculation.

For example, spheroidal wave functions are needed
in the calculation of nuclear energy levels of spheroidal
nuclei. This last fall the energy levels of a spheroidal,
square-well potential were calculated on Whirlwind by
J. L. Utetsky for different eccentricities. These calcula-
tions use the previously developed program to compute
a sequence of wave functions, each coming closer to
satisfying the boundary conditions, until some prede-
termined criterion of closeness of fit is satisfied and the
corresponding energy is then recorded and a new se-
quence is started to close in on the next level. This
more general program was fairly easy to devise because
the most difficult part of it, that for the calculation of
the spheroidal functions, was already done.

I COULD give several hundred similar examples, each
with its lesson learned. But if I go on, I might be
suspected of doing what I didn’t want to do, of boast-
ing about the capabilities of digital computers. Perhaps
I have given enough examples to illustrate my earlier
generalities: that high-speed computing machines don’t
do your thinking for you, that you have to work with
them to get the most out of them, and that they aren’t
good for every kind of problem. Perhaps you have come
to the same conclusion we have, however, that in spite of
their shortcomings they are nice things to have around.

Nowadays it doesn’t seem you can get very far in
experimental physics without using big, expensive appa-
ratus. You can’t compete unless your machine costs a
million or so. Well, we theorists are now in the running
too: we needn’t apologize for our cheapness and sim-
plicity of operation any more. High-speed computers
are our million dollar gadgets.

 

 

1 Stratton, Morse,  Chu, and Corbaté, Spheroidal Wave Functions,
John Wiley & Sons, N. Y. and Technology Press, MIT, 1956.