This invention relates to ornamental articles
intended for adorning garments subjected to
laundering, cleaning or pressing from time to
time, and it is possible that an ornamental
article may be damaged in such operations.
Moreover, it is sometimes desirable to change
an ornamental article for one of a different
shape or colour.

An ornamental article according to the present
invention comprises a base intended to be se—
cured to the garment in a permanent manner,
and an ornament mounted on the base in a de-
tachable manner.

Conveniently a part of a press—stud fastener
may constitute the base of the article, the orna-
ment being formed to engage this part. There
may be a projection with an enlarged end ex—
tending from the base, the other part of the
article being formed with a holeor recess which
will snap over this enlargement.

r

O ORNAME NTAL ARTICLES

 

The projection may be arranged to extend and
appear through a hole in the ornament.

It will be understood that both the base and the
ornament may have many different forms, but
in one particular form of article the male part
of a standard press—stud fastener forms the
base, and the ornament is formed froma brightly
coloured moulded plastic material to simulate
the petals of a ﬂower. The projection of the
press-stud extends and appears through a hole
in the centre of the ornament to represent the
centre part of the ﬂower, the hole in the orna—
ment being only just big enough to snap over
the projection. When the garment is to be washed
or cleaned the ornament may be removed so
that it will not be damaged during the washing
or cleaning operation, the base, which is less
likely to come to harm, remaining on the gar-
ment during this operation.

Exhibit 10

The Examiner's Action

After having completed his search, and
having come to a conclusion as to the pat—
entability of each of the claims, the ex—
aminer sent a letter to the applicant, citing
the pertinent references. He rejected
those claims which he belived to be un—
patentable and pointed out how he con—
sidered the references to be anticipatory.
Had he found any claims which, in his
judgment, were patentable, he would have
allowed them at this time.

The initial action of the examiner re—
jected each of the Claims on the dis-

closures of the patents of exhibits 3— 10.
and stated in part:

each . . . shows a uniting of two or more bead-
like or ornamental elements by means of a
projection, which may or may not be integral
with said elements: and a corresponding socket.
More specifically . . . (exhibit 7),]employsaset
of three or more colored studs or ornaments
which aredesignedtosnap-fasten into . . . (one
another). . . . (exhibit 3) makes a decorative
chain of ornamental units designed to snap-
fasten together. . . . (exhibit 4) shows a rub-
ber dowel pin 14 . . . for uniting members 5.
Though . . . (exhibit 8) or . . , (exhibit 10)
shows only two plastic ornaments, it would be

22

 

 

mere duplication to employ more than two

(exhibit 5) , _ . (exhibit 6) and . . . (exhibits);
show more than two units united together byball
and socket arrangemem. Attention is drawn to
the leg portion . . ,_ in . . . .(exhibit,5) where
there is shown a series of more‘than two
plastic ornaments having ball and socket means

of uniting so as to permit resilient connection
with a slight degree of movement as is present
in the claimed structure. The plastic used in

(exhibit 4. 5, 8, and 10) is believed to be

'eq'uivalent to the polyethylene herein claimed
Restricting the intended use to a headed chain

is not sufficient to impart patentability to an
otherwise old and well known structure.

_ , . (exhibit 2) is cited to show that it is old
to provide hollow members of two parts as de-
scribed in Fig. 5 of applicant’s drawing (ex-
hibit l) (Matter in parentheses added.)

The essence of patentability of a claim
most often is found, in the first instance,
in the interrelational combinations re-
cited in the claim, ,rather than in the spe-
cific details of the elements which are in-
terrelated. Once this interrelational com-
bination is found in one reference, de-
tails of equivalent elements in other ref-
erences may be cited to show equivalency
if they are boil; (1) similar to those
being claimed, and (2) used analogously

"to the equivalent elements found in the

interrelationcombination.

It will be noted here that exhibits 5,
6, and 9 particularly cited by the examiner,
as well as 3, 4, and 7, show the inter-
relational combination of a plurality of
separable, connectable, and interchange-
able devices, which was required by the
form of the claims, as presented. Once
this basic interrelations] combinationwas
found, details from other references were
then used jointly with it to show the' more
specific details recited in the claims. This
was done because the examiner came to
a legal conclusion that the doll limb of
exhibit 5, the game of exhibit 6, etc).
were fair anticipations of the interrela-
tional combinations as m clain‘tedbythe
aPplicant, and that the joint structures of
references were not only used analogously
1n the application and the patents (and
hence were equivalents), but met theterms
0f the claims as then presented.

23

 

It should be in
claims are re

' tedahie clear that many
. jec ecause they are met
Signs; (1) by a plurality of disclosures
un [, together, show an invention to be
Si‘pal entable, or (2) less frequently, by a
I go reference disclosing an analogous
caching. Relatively few claims are re—
jected on identical disclosures.

The Applicant’s Response

The applicant revised his original jud -

ment as to the ' ' ‘ g

. scope of his inventions after
studying the cited references. At that
time, he could have resubmitted his claims
amended them, or presented new claims
for reconsideration by the examiner.

The applicant, however, responded to
the. various rejections made by the ex-
aminer during the prosecution of the ap-
plication by presenting six new, carefully
redrawn claims, each of which more
specifically pointed out and emphasized
the differences in structure between his
application and the references, i.e., the
details of structure and the interrelational
concepts which were not in the references.
In particular, he emphasized the uninter—
rupted socket entrance surface, the head
of the projecting member larger than the
entrance opening but smaller than the in—
terior of the socket, and. the neck of the
projecting member smaller than the en—
trance opening, allowing a limited ball
and socket action.

Allowance of the Application

In his last response to the examiner,
the applicant pointed out, inter alia, that;

The new claims bring out the structure by
which the loose and ﬂexible connection is ob—
tained between the beads. Such structure, is
not shown in the prior art and it is by means
of such structure that applicant is enabled to
obtain the same effect as that obtained with a
necklace in which the beads are held ona string.

The six claims then pending were then
allowed by the examiner, since, in his
opinion, the differences in structure be-
tween the application and the references
permitted a difference in result in the