DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

T R ————————————————————

PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE BETHESDA 14, MD.

 

NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH

November 12, 1957

Professor Philip M. Morse

Compton Computation Laboratory
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Professor Morse:

I have recently been appointed as an Associate Professor
in Biophysics and am planning to start . to work at M.I.T. in
March of 19358.

I have been carrying out X-ray diffraction studies on
the nucleic acids and other substances of biological importance.
Many of these are elongated helical molecules, and one part of
my research program consists of computing the Fourier-Bessel
transform of various trial structures which are developed to
interpret the diffraction data. The Fourier-Bessel transform
has been developed to incorporate the helical symmetry in these
molecules.

At the present time I am carrying out this computation
on an IBM-604 at NIH. However, I would like to use the computing
facilities in the Compton Laboratory when I move to M.I.T. If it
is at all possible, I would like to develop this computing program
on the IBM-704 with someone in your laboratory who is familiar
with programming problems.

I am planning to spend a week or so at Tech some time in
December and would appreciate it if I could visit you then and
make arrangements for this computing problem. If it would be
more convenient, however, I could send you or one of your assis-
tants the details of the program prior to my visit.

Sincerely yours, ‘
ooN ! ‘ L | u /
(\ t : "“—/ Gl CAINALAN

Alexander Rich, M.D.
Chief, Section on Physical Chemistry
National Institute of Mental Health

 

National Cancer Institute National Heart Institute National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases
National Institute of Dental Research National Institute of Mental Health National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness The Clinical Center

Division of Biological Standards Division of Business Operations Division of Research Grants Division of Research Services