e s»wnbnr 23. 1!60

e 'm\ yuu. we cau atato that tho c&ocuvmn of the computcr as -

. spplied to management problems will increase enormously. In some
. 'ways, we are just beginning to relate the computer to mfermﬂon
- technelogy, simulation of decision making, planning and control

- muul. and mathematical applications in general in a mnagoment
sense, The coming of the IBM 1620 will give us an important start on

~ these problems. Of course the availability of the IBM 704 in the past

 years, and now the IBM 709 in the Computation Center, have been of

2 critical u-otulnon to the advanced research of Professors Forrester,

~ Alexander, Kuh, and others. This will undoubtedly continue, but we

i aud mmm for. uuarchmmﬁnxm and for the train-

 

o , 'fho Bchool ef lndunmal ‘Management hu long had consldcrable
 computational effort in conjunction with a number of courses. Last year
- the introduction of a Quantitative Option in both the Masters Program of

~ the School of Industrial Management and the Department of Economics
 emphasized the computational content. The new Ph.D. program in In-

dustrial Management offered this fall for the first time will also make

~possible more advanced computer applications. The following list rep~

 resents courses that will benefit directly from the ready availability of
the IBM 1620, In the future it is likely that oonsideubly more instruc~
uon in the computer ﬁald will be glven.

15, 542 M_anagcmnt Infgx;m n Syst _e_g

Study of the structure and related techniques of an information
system required for managing an enterprise. Nature and develop-
ment of the information system and formulation of improved systems.
Introduction to programming a stored program computer and the
technelogy underlying data-processing equipment, Emphasis on
the use of large~scale digital computers in integrated information
and decision~making systems. Lectures, library research, problem
formulation and solution, programming and operation of an IBM 650
computer and case studies of existing or proposed systems.,
Proiessor James C. Emery