April 13, 1959

Professor L. V. Kantoravich
Computation Center
University of Leningrad
Leningrad

UJ. 5. 3. R.

Dear Professor Kantorovich:

I am writing to invite you to give a series of ten lectures on your work and that
of your coileagues in the Soviet Union in the areas of linear programming,
functional analysis, and automatic programming of the "FProrab' type, here at
the University of North Carolina from August 17-28. You could lecture in either
Russian or/(preferably for us) English.

I am also inviting Dr. Ershov of the Academy of Sciences Computation Center
to give a similar series of lectures on automatic programming {rom the point of
view of "programming programs’ for the Strela and BESM, and the theoretical

work going on in this area that has, for example, been published in Problemy
Kibernetiki.

You will be paid the standard honorarium for vour lectures ($1,000), plus money
for expenses in the United States ($200), for 2 total of $1200. Out of this you
will have to pay U. S. income taxes which will amount to less than $100. You
would be expected to furnish your own transportation between the U. 5. S. R.
and New York aad return.

Your visit will be so timed that you will be ables to attend with me and Professor
Perlis of Carnegie Tech the National issociation for Computing Machinery meeting
to be held in Cambridge, Massachusetts on September 1, £2, and 3. As you note,
since last fall I have left Lan Arbor to become Director of our new Center here.

I am sending copies of this letter and the invitation to Dr. Ershov also to
Academiciang Dorodnitsin and Lebedev. If it should happen that you and they would
be interested in attendance of three or four persons rather than just you and

Dr. Ershov, 1 would be pleased to hear further irom you and them.

The University of North Carolina will have installed on its campus at the time of
this conference a copy of the Univac 1105 computer now being used by the Bureau
of Census in the processing of the 1960 U. S. Census. There is also now present
a Royal McBee LGP-30 Librascope computer on the campus.


Professor 1..vV. Kantorovich
Page Two April 13, 1959

We would hope to make Plans for you to talk to other American computer
mathematicians not only at Chapel Hill and Cambridge, but also along your
itinerary from New York to Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill to Cambridge, Massachusetts,
and Cambridge back to New York.

A8 you will see from the enclosed announcement of the Conference, we have
invited other Computer scientists from Germany, France, Switzerland, aad in
addition, Great Britain, to lecture. We feel that the meeting and the people
attending should be of interest to you and your colleagues. The lectures, of
course, are to come under the agreement on exchange of persons between the
United States and the Soviet Union; and it would be expecied that a like number
of U. 5S. computer scientists would be iavited to pay a similar visit to the Soviet
Union, perhaps to give a similar series of lectures,

I would appreciate your conferring with Academicians Lebedev and Dorodnitsin
and Dr. Ershov about this possible trip, and would appreciate hearing from you
48 soon as possible. I look forward personally to meeting you again, Please
don't hesitate to reply in Russian,

Sincerely yours,

 
  

ohn W. Carr, II, Director
esearch Computation Center

cc: Professor A, J. Perlis, Carnegie Tech =
Professor Philip Morse, M.I.T. Computer
Laboratory, Cambridge, Massachusetts
Dr. W. M. Whyburn, Vice President,
University of North Carolina
Academician 4. A, Dorodnitsin
Academician S. A, Lebedev


