L,

data would help thils work as well as others., Another promising
direction of investigation is in the application of machine tech-
nigues to library inventorying, cataloging and record-keeping. :
Although Special-purpose machines will probably be required in the
end, many ideas and procedures can be developed and checked out on
the general-purpose machine at the Center with the addition, per-
haps, of some Speclally built input and output equipment. The
staff of the MIT Library is interested in this work and will con-
tribute its knowledge to its progress,

C. Perhaps the most promising line of advance, in part
because the least Investigated up t111 now, 1is in the field of
sccial science experimenis, where the computer can be used as
recorder, scorer and referee. Tactical situations in warfare are
already being studied by “gaming techniques" at Rend and in other
military operations research groups. Similar problems in various
Fields of the social sciences can also. be studied by 8implifying
the situation down to some sort of ‘"game", with more or less com-
pPlicated rules, which can be played by groups of investigators, to
See what the consequences are of various 8trategles. If the "games"
are to correspond, even distantly, to some sctual soclal situation,
the rules must be quite complicated and the scoring will require a
great deal of statistical computation. It has been found that only
by the use of computing machines can the scoring be speeded up
sufficiently so that enough games can be run through to provide
an over-all grasp of the situation under study. Such "gaming
techniques" are closely related to the experiments of Bavelas on
the behavior of task-oriented groups. The use of 3 properly pro-
grammed computer would provide such experiments with a powerful
and flexible means of changing, controlling, and analyzing these
experiments in social psychology. In this fieid we could work in
close collaboration with the Center for International Studies at
MIT and with the pasychology departments 1in Several ofther colleges.

Suggested Guidange for the Research

The research activities of the Computation Center are
guided and coordinated by an Advisory Committee consisting of
representatives from each of the participating colleges, each
chosen by the president of his college. This Committee provides
over-all policy guidance in all activities. But to gulde the work
in soclal science outlined above, we will need another, more ape-
clalized group. If financial support for this activity is forth-
coming, about six top-flight social zseientists Trom the participating
institutions will be invited to Jjoin a special advisory committee,
to talk over possible lines of reé3earch with the Center stafi, to
help find those social 8clentists with "gleams in their eyes" re-
garding machine utilization in their field, ©o help arrange the
formation of teams for the pursult of the suggested research and
To adviee on relative priorities, if and when there is more work
to be done than there is machine time available.