Minutes of Meeting, January 9, 1956

of
Institutional Representatives with IBM and MIT Staff,
to Discuss Plans for the Computation Center.

(Appended sheet gives list of attendees.)

1. Morse and Hurd gave the background of the projected
installation of the IBM 704 and the Computation Center to adminlster
it. They emphasized that the Center was set up primarily to provide
instruction in the use of high speed computers in science, engineering,
and business and that both operating procedures and financial support
will be planned to further this aim. Each participating school will
be expected to contribute on three levels: one senior faculty
Institutional Representative, who would act as official coordinator

etween his stitution and the Computation Center on policy and
financial matters; one or more faculty members who have an active
interest in learning about machine techniques, who would carry on
research at the Center and training in machine use at his college and
who would be appointed a Research Assoclate of the Center (some of
these would be financed, In part, by the 18M Research Fund of the

Center, others would be supported by other projects by thelr colleges);

and one or more Research Assistants, graduate students who would spend
part of thelr time at the Center helping program and run off problems
and who usually, though not necessarily, would recelve stipends from
the IBM Research Fund, via their college. The yearly amount for
awards for Research Associateships and Research Assistantships for

the participating institutions is #30,000, an equal amount 1s for

MIT, These awards will be made by the Center, after consultation
with the Liaison Committee, which will be made up of some of the
Institutional Representatives, each serving for 2 limited time, so

as to have rotation of representation.

2. Verzuh and Hunter described the installation, which ls
expected to be placed in the new Compton Laboratory the first part
of 1957.

3. Morse passed around proposed drafts of notices concerning
the opportunities for Research Assistantships and Associateships,
which the Institutional Representatives could distribute to the
interested departments in their institution. It is hoped that

decisions could be made, this spring, for appointments beginning
next fall,


4. Hurd and Mason discussed three sorts of training courses
in 704 use which would be available this summer; a special course,
given the latter part of the summer, of two weeks AST
week at IBM in New York (tuition-free but living expenses to be paid
by the participants) open to any of the three classes of participants
mentioned in paragraph 1; several regular three-week traini rograms
given by IBM in New York during the summer and next fall, W oo could
be taken by those participants who could not attend the special MIT-
IBM course; a ten-week summer program at IBM in New York, involving
training and also assisting in machine operation, the participants
being paid a modest stipend for the ten weeks' work (participants in
this program will be chosen by IBM from those Research Associates
and Assistants applying.)

~~ 5. Morse said the Liaison Committee would be formed before the
end of February. It was suggested that it would be desirable to
have one more meeting of all of the Institutional Representatives
this spring, in addition to whatever meetings of the smaller Liaison
Committee might be necessary.

6. Morse asked the Representatives present to write him, within
3 week, to . comment on the following subjects:

a. Suggestions for wording the Announcements of Assistant-
ships and Associateships (see paragraph 3) to be printed up soon,
which could best fit the situation in their own college. Estimates
of thé number of such announcements they would need for use in their
college. |

Be Estimates as to possible applications for Assistantships 3
and Associateships which might come from their college this spring.

. ¢. Estimates as to how many from their college who would
be interested in each of the three training programs (mentioned 1n
paragraph 4) which are planned for this summer:

d. Any other suggestions for procedures or activities which
would further the educational aims of the Computation Center.

7. Pamphlets relating to the operation of the 704 machines
and concerning programming codes for the 704 were distributed to
those present. Truman Hunter, who 1s to be the IBM representative
in Cambridge to work with the Center, said extra copies and other
material could be obtained by writing him at the IBM Office, 363 Third
St., Cambridge, Mass. Morse said that he and Hunter would be glad to
visit the participating colleges this spring, to discuss the program
further, if this is considered desirable.

REN Ne


