-~

e

Adninistrative Memorandum A-1 | Page 1 of 10

M.I.T. Computation Center
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Cambridge 39, Massachusetts
e e - | . Date: October 27, 1956
From:  Dr. Frank M. Verzuh

Subject: JOB DESCRIPTION FOR COMPUTATION CENTER PERSONNEL

Introduction

The purpose of this memorandum is to enumerate the principal categories

. 0of non-staff and staff personnel positions and to provide the job description of

each. The job descriptions presented in this memorandum must of necessity be :
somewhat general. On the other hand, it is hoped that they are sufficiently detailed
to asgist in the actual procurement of personnel to fill the respective positions.

An attempt has been made to establish the minimum starting requirements for
the various positions. However,every effort should be made to obtain candidates whose
qualifications exceed the minimum requirements. . .

In order to assist the Personnel Office in their job of weeding and selecting
candidates for interviews at the Computation Center, there are at least five {5)
general qualifications which should be examined prior to arrangement of an interview
with the Computation Center Persomnnel Officer. These genmeral qualifications are:

1. Educational background,

2. Natural ability and aptitude,
3. Previous éxperiencé,

4. Technical skills,

9. Demonstrated compatibility -- ability to work with others,
teanwork, etc.,

€. Physical appeargnce.

The exact definition of the above—five qualifications varies with the particular Jjob
description involved. Hence, succeqding sections of this report will clarify the
meaning of these terms. g et

There are many types of jobs available in the M.I.T. Computation Center. The
following list includes the principal ones:

1. Administrative personnel - personnel officer;, projesct supervisor,

Z. Office personnel - secretary, clerk, typists,

3. Tape Room - clerk, flexoWriter operator, supervisor, etc.,

4. Machine oOperators - WWI computer operator, photographer, supwrvisor,
2. IBM Card Punch operator - key punch operator