Corrections for article which appeared in the September, 1951, issue of the

tJovrnal of the Optical Society of Americal

REFLECTION AND TRANSMISSION OF RADIATION BY MCTAL FILMS, AND

TEE INFLUENCE OF NON-ABSORBING BACKINGS

Louis Farris, John ¥. Beasley, and Arthur L. Loeb

Errata

P. 605, line 7 and eq. (2)¢ TFor Ry, read: R,

p. 606, equation (6) should read:

£(0)

p. 609, equations (31) and (32): for R. and T

P AY AN /2 mn)dA)

 

— (6)

(PO Wro/amn)aedn)

T T read: R and T

p. 611, colum 2, lines 5 and 6 from the bottom should read:

Mathematically, this amounts to the assumption:

 

 

 

 

F(sin 6, cos 9) = F(sin ©, cos ©) i

P. 613-614, The definitions of 6 and ©5 should reads

93"‘

b+ ?’/2

211nb = _

A+ )[/2

5 - €

A= U2

v~ §/ 4

Ean e W Y/ > CF
A= /2

 

when X/;{ __Z_ g/g

 

2 mn, when X/-):é_ é/‘f)—

nn IY IR g 5 L G
A+ /2

 

Reprinted from JOURNAL oF THE OPTICAL SocIETY OF AMERICA, Vol. 41, No. 9, 604-614, September, 1951
Printed in U. S. A. ; |

Reflection and Transmission of Radiation by Metal Films and the Influence of
- Nonabsorbing Backings*

LOUIS.HARRIS, JouN K. BEASLEY,t AND ARTHUR L. LOEB
Depariment of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusells

(Received November 3, 1950)

A set of equations is presented for the reflection and transmission of normally incident radiation by

absorbing (metal) films on nonabsorbing backings.

Using these equations, the results of two different methods of calculation of the reflection and transmission
coefficients of a thick nonabsorbing plate are shown to be practically identical, both with and without an
“absorbing (metal) film on one surface of the plate. One of these methods involves the addition of intensities
of the multiple reflections from the two surfaces of the plate. The other method is a rigorous calculation
involving solution of the boundary condition equations (amplitude addition) for small areas followed by

intensity averaging over the whole plate.

In order to calculate optical constants of a metal film on a thick nonabsorbing backing, the much simpler
method of intensity addition of internal reflections in the backing may usually be applied.

 

INTRODUCTION

THE optical constants of partially transmitting

metal films may be determined by means of the
reflection and transmission measurements of nearly
normally incident radiation.!=® These metal films are
usually deposited on an optically nonabsorbing backing.
When the backing is very thin (of the order of the
wavelength of the incident radiation or less), its surfaces
are made optically parallel, and such backings may
exhibit interference phenomena. The results of the
derivation of expressions for the reflection and trans-
mission in terms of the optical constants of these sys-
tems are presented subsequently.

In the case of thicker backings there is a good deal of
disagreement between various authors*~7 about the
influence of the uncovered face of the backing on the
reflection and transmission. Customarily, multiple re-
flections from the two surfaces of the backing are con-
sidered, and the intensities of the beams emerging from
the two surfaces are added to find the reflection and
transmission coefficients of the system.

Intensity superposition is shown! to be justifiable
when the sources of the beams are incoherent. Koller?
and, more recently, Matossi® have pointed out that the

* This work supported in part by ONR, under contract N Sori-
07839 NRO 15309.

T Presented in partial fulfillment of requirements for degree of
Ph.D. in the Department of Chemistry at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. 1

' J. A. Stratton, Electromagnetic Theory (McGraw-Hill Book
Company, Inc., New York, 1941), pp. 511-515.

* K. Koller, Z. Physik 110, 661 (1938).

3 F. Matossi, J. Opt. Soc. Am. 39, 928 (1949).

" H. Goldschmidt, Ann. Physik 82, 947 (1927).

* H. Murmann, Z. Physik 80, 191 (1933).

% J. Krautkrimer, Ann. Physik 32, 537 (1938).

" F. Goos, Z. Physik 106, 606 (1937).

( ® L. N. Hadley and D. M. Dennison, J. Opt. Soc. Am. 37, 451
1947).

’R. L. Mooney, J. Opt. Soc. Am. 35, 574 (1945). .

YF. A. Jenkins and H. E. White, Fundamentals of Physical
Optics (McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York, 1937),
p. 36.

reflected and transmitted waves from the two surfaces
of a nonabsorbing plate are not necessarily incoherent.
Koller claims to demonstrate a difference between re-
sults of intensity addition and those of amplitude
addition, but this discrepancy is due to a mathematical
error in Koller’s analysis. '

Since intensity addition is much more practical to
apply than is amplitude addition, and since it has been
widely used,®®7 an analysis of the accuracy of intensity
addition is presented below.

It appears that intensity addition is applicable for
sufficiently thick backings when either the thickness of
the backing or the wavelength of the incident radiation,
or both, has a sufficiently large range of probable values.

INTENSITY ADDITION

Without theoretical justification of intensity addition,
the customary method of dealing with thick backings is
given below.

The backing generally has two different parallel
surfaces, one of which is exposed to the air, while the
other one is covered by a thin metal film. The reflection
and transmission coefficients of these surfaces are de-
fined as follows:

(reflected | by the backing-air inter-

Ro b} % s
Tos the fl'dCthIlI transmitted J face,

by a metal covered
reflected backing when the inci-
transmitted [ dent radiation travels

from air into metal,

Rz .
Toa}the fraction

by a metal covered

R"“ltl P reflected backing when the inci-
Tvel 16 HACHONY 4 nsmitted [dent radiation travels
from backing into metal.

It will be shown that R,,#Rse, but that Tou=T3,.
Since there is no absorption at the backing-air interface,
Tob= 1— Ro be

604