COMMITTEE ON MACHINE METHODS OF COMPUTATION
Minutes 25 the Seventh Meeting
March 10, 195k

Persons Present: L. J. Chu, H. Feshbach, J. W. Forrester,
F. B. Hildebrand, P. M. Morse, U. W. Seifert,
F. M. verzuh

Morse reported progress on the request to the NSF for
support or a Conference on Numerical Tables. The rest of the
meeting was given over to a discussion or assistantship applica-
tions for next year.

We have now 11 graduate assistants and one post—doctoral
associate; we could afford twice as many next year but only about
as many the year after. or the 12 now here, four assistants and
the associate will probably terminate this spring, so we could
appoint 15 new assistants and two post-doctoral associates, though
some of these could only be supported for one year.

The Mathematics Department will not have Aronson or
Miss Lister on this project next year, but the other four will
remain. They propose Edgar Reich as a post-doctoral associate
(it he will accept; Lin will report whether he will accept) and
A. Ralston as half-tine assistant. Another man, Mollroy, may
be recommended later.

The Physics Department will lose Newstein and Yilmaz
and Rubinow (and Little has already transferred to the Operations
Research project) so there are only three men continuing. Two
men who have been on leave or absence this year, Uretsky and
Sartori, wish to return, and two others, E. L. Garvin and A. Tubis,
were also proposed. Three more, R. N. Euwema, Miss Winkel, and
N. K. Glandenning appeared possible and will be reported on next
meeting. Feshbach had a letter from a W. E. Williams of
Manchester, England; Morse is to inquire of his abilities and
background.

or the four other Assistants, Hey, Vozoff, Sydney, and
O'Donnell, Sydney is finishing and O'Donnell is possibly finishing.
The Civil Engineering Department indicates there may be a new
man, which they will propose next time.

The next meeting will be at 3:00 p.m., Wednesday,
April 7.

§6Q\ND$LSL_____
Ph1~i M. Morse
Chairman
PMM:JM


