T‘H E LJDIIV'E R SIlTY' O F C HI C A.G O
CHICAGOS7-1LL!NOIS

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS

26 December 1956

Professor Philip M. Morse

Department of Physics

Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge 39, Mass.

Dear Professor Morse,

Our work in developing a code for use with the Whirlwind for computing
the 2—center interelectronic repulsion exchange integrals

If xa(l) xg(l) e2/r12 X53”) xg"(3) dvldvz

has reached the point where these integrals can now be accurately
computed for probably any combination of l— and 2—quantum atomic
orbitals x, XI, Xl', x'"(a and b are the 2 centers). The work during
recent months has been in the hands of Mr. Philip Merryman. He is
now here, but will be ready shortly to return to M.I.T. where we hope
he can complete testing the code and compute values of specific
integrals.

Some testing, checking, and minor revision is still needed in order

to make the code operable, and to determine its reliability and accuracy,
in the complete range of parameter values.. Also, a minor revision

of the code should be made to take advantage of the increasedfast

memory now available— it is estimated that this will reduce the time

to compute an integral by at least 50 percent. I think we have used
about g5_hours of the total time of 55 hours which you so kindly

granted us. If the remaining 10 hours is still available we believe

this should be ample for the comtemplated checking and minor revisions.

We are then faced with an urgent need for additional time for the
actual computation of particular values of integrals to be used in
determing best LCAO—MO wave functions, and properties derivable there—
from, fdr a series of diatomic molecules (first Li , Beg, Cg, N2,

02, F2 or some of these; and AH, where A is a firs -row atom; then
BeO, LiF, and other heteropolars). The indicated calculations are
part of our program under a grant from the National Science Founda—
tion. A conservative estimate of the running time needed tolbotain
the exchange integrals needed for the most important molecules on

the above dprogram is 60 additional hours on Whirlwind.

Professor Roothaan and I would like therefore to make a request for
up to 60 hours of Whirlwind time between now and about June 1 for
computing values of specific integrals. Some of our specific
Values will probably be useful to John Slater too, and will of
course be available to him. In view of the relatively large amount
of time involved, we would feel that we should contribute as much
as possible to the cost. Our National Science Foundation grant,
includes about $25,000 for computer time, but this is for a three—
year period, so we ought not to use more than $8,000 this year,