I

STANFORD UNIVERSITY

STANFORD, CALIFORNIA

 

OFFICE OF THE PROVOST

June 29, 1959
TO: IDA Trustees who are professional
educators
Al Hill Eric Walker Je Cs Morris

v Phil Morse Herold Robertson H. H. Hatcher
John Hrones Rufus Harris

FROM: Fo E. Terman

Gentlemen:

At the last meeting of the Trustees of IDA an effort was made to
identify ways in which IDA might develop more effectively the educational
function stated in its charter. At the end of this discussion I was
asked to give the matter some thought, and after consultation with those
trustees who are professional educators, to develop a paper for the
September meeting that would attempt to put the problem in focus.

As a means of getting started, I am listing below a number of ways in
which IDA might interact with universities. I am also giving my own
comments on some of these items. It would be appreciated if those to
vhom this document is addressed would react to this list and my comments
thereon.

IDA will probably be able each year to devote a significant though not
large amount of money for educational purposes of a public service
character. IDA is also able to provide certain types of experience and
training for university faculty through participation for limited terms
in IDA activities. Some of the possible types of interaction that might
exist between IDA and university educational circles are as follows:

1. Pre~doctoral fellowships supported by IDA.
2. Post-doctoral fellowships sponsored by IDA.
3. Post-doctoral intermships for young PhDs to work at IDA
on assignments as interns rather than employees, i.e. under
circumstances where their presence at IDA is as mach for the
purpose of self-improvement as it is for producing output
useful to IDA.
4. Baucational programs for IDA employees:
a. Pre-doctoral fellowships to enable IDA employees to
return to college and complete doctoral programs.

COPY


L.{Cont.)

enable IDA employees to spend from 3 months to 12
months in study at universities, or possibly as guests
at other operations research groups, etc.

ce Released time for IDA employees to permit them to
study on a part time basis at institutions in the
vicinity of their employment without having to take
on an excessive overload.

5. University personnel on leave of absence to IDA for periods
of from one to two years.

6. IDA personnel loaned to universities for one or two semesters
to teach, and to sct &s consultants on university research
programe (this is related to 4b), with subsidy to the insti-
tution to make up the difference between IDA salary and value
of the service to the university (at university rates of pay).

Te Sponsorship of a summer institute of three to six weeks
duration for the purpose of acquainting university personnel
with operations research techniques of the type engaged in by
IDA; these institutes to be analogous to the Executive Development
Programs Por middle management groups sponsored by the Harvard
and Stanford Graduate Schools of Business.

8. Sponsorship of summer study groups that involve participation
by university personnel.

9. Refresher programs of some type for those who have previously
been involved in summer study or IDA-type studies. For example,
one might hold a one week's reunion of a summer study group one
to three years afterward, to engage in a post mortem of the
original summer study in the light of subsequent events, and to
be brought up to date in the subject originally dealt with.

How for some broad brush comments on certain of the above points. General
fellowships programs, either pre-doctoral or post-docgoral will be useful
to society as a whole if properly managed, but are of such a shotgun
character as to be unlikely to contribute very significantly to future
activities of IDA. This is because one cannot tie the award of such a
fellowship to willingness to accept subsequent employment with IDA. Since
IDA employs only a very small fraction of the PhDs turmed out in the
country in any particular area that can be named, the contribution of an
IDA fellowship program to the training of future IDA employees 1s relative~
ly small.

Item 3 is more likely to serve IDA's enlightened self-interest, since young
men at this stage are making career plans, and the acceptance of a post~
doctoral internship in IDA would indicate a predisposition to enter the
field of operations analysis.

As to educational programs for IDA employees (Item k) I do not know to
vhat extent there are amployees of substantiel promise in IDA who would
benefit from the opportunities of further formal training at an educational
institution. However, to the extent that there are such individuals, it
would seem to me that this type of [fringe benefit should be extended very
generously.


With reference to point 5; it is my belief, and I know that Al Hill

does not agree, that 8 university man who has been loaned to IDA for
one or two years, usually returns to his institution as a less valuable
faculty member than he would have been if he had stayed there: There
are exceptions, of course, such as (1) those who are professionally in
operations analysis, and so are &ble to use thelr IDA experience directly
in a continuation of a pre-IDA professional academic activity, (2) those
who uge the break in their career represented by the IDA experience as a
means of effecting a transition from working scientist to administrator,
and (3) those who were not doing anything particularly significant in
their oun fields before going to IDA and so are not particularly damaged
by a one or two year detour into IDA activities.

The point 1s that a really outstanding academic man in & highly productive
phase in his life, who is engaged in important research activities, cannot
give up these activities even for only one year without serious loss to
his career. In & rapidly woving field, scientific research ls a very
dynamic and competitive activity, with the result that the men who inter-
rupts his campus research for a year or two while his colleagues do not,
finds that he has lost ground. Certainly, any educational institution
which is anxious to increase its stature will nearly always suffer if

ite leading physical chemist, nuclear physicist, electronics man, or
metallurglst, drops his campus program that is bringing prestige to the
university, and goes off and does operations analysis for one or two
years; the man involved likewise suffers professionally.

 

 

The idea of sebbaticals from IDA to universities (Item 6) where the
university makes a contribution to the man's salary equivalent to a part-
time academic position, with IDA paying the rest of the salary, has some |
possibilities for spreading the gospel of operations analysis. However, |
IDA employees who have dealt continuously with classified material are

likely to find it is difficult for them to talk when classified material \
must be avoided, so their ungefulness in this commection may be limited. |

The Sumner Institute idea (Item 7) might each summer take @& group of |
20 to LO knowledgeable academic people and attempt to acquaint them with |
the concepts of operations analysis through a short and intensive program. |
The purpose would be to get more people familiar with the field, and parti-
cularly people who would be strategically located around the country. The |
cost to IDA would be the instructional cost for the program, together with
transporation, board and room, for the participants. I would assume that

the participants would not require a salary. In & period of five to ten

years, one could in this way build up quite a group of alumni who had had

the experience of such a Sumer Institute, and who would have some famill-

arity with IDA and a friendly feeling towards it.

Summer study groups ere being set up every year to tackle particular
problems of interest to the military. As a by-product they do provide
training in operational thinking for academic personnel who are usually
well represented in them. Possibly IDA could do something here that


VRE increase the value of such activities to the academic partie
cipants.

In conclusion, let me say if you have read this far, your patience is
greatly appreciated. I hope that there will be sufficient reaction to
cause you to sit down and dash off a few thoughts that bear on the re-
lationship between IDA and educational institutions. This reaction

would hopefully include additional items for the listing, uninhibited criti-
clsm of my comments, and additional views.

On the basis of the response obtained, I will then attempt to work up
some form of a document that will at least give some of the opportunities,
posgibilities; and difficulties presented to IDA in its attempt to make

a contribution to education.

Sincerely,

J [aren

Fe Bs Terman

ce: William Burden
Garrison Norton
General James McCormack


